CNBC exclusive hey again Jeff oh thank
you so much Karl yep we're here with
Jamie diamond Jamie this is quite a
commitment to an area that frankly has
gone from bank to unbanked city just
pulled out over the course the last five
years fifteen million dollars a network
330 banks have closed in the last ten
years why why not yeah well you know
with regulatory reform and tax reform
where you now says twenty billion dollar
thing going to many cities obviously
Philadelphia is the seventh largest mark
in the United States that's not
including their biggest suburb called
New York and you know we and we like to
be part of a community we're already
here in investment banking commercial
banking and private banking retail is a
gap so we're gonna open 50 branches 20
percent will be in LMI neighborhoods
neighborhoods like this and when we come
in we bring the full force of JP Morgan
which is philanthropy dollars but to
really help people like entrepreneur
color funds affordable housing units and
and we enjoy it it's good for the
company and over time and we're we
invest the long run we never pulling it
out of something talked about the
multiplier effect and when you open a
branch people think you know what we
don't need branches anymore everything's
digital yeah but brick the more works
it's amazing so I think people aren't
thinking clearly a million people
visited branches every day the type of
branch is gonna change the size that
branch can change they're getting
smaller but more advice so there's a
mortgage loan office in there there's a
small business loan officer there's a
financial adviser but your financial
affairs so that'll change but a million
people even even the average millennial
visits something like three times a
quarter so to me the question of brands
no more forget they'll change but you
still need to serve your client the way
they want to be served not the way I
want to serve them as you know we've
rolled out all these new products too
right like like finding the online only
bank
well maybe mention this because a lot of
people feel that 10 years ago one of the
problems was the education the borrower
the boy or did not know enough about
what to do you said to be someone in
there literally to help and to teach
yeah well that make a difference versus
say 10 years ago yeah I've told the
people here when you go to these LMI
neighborhoods try something special but
we were gonna roll a lot of financial
education tools we have you invest
we're gonna roll out a self advised
group and we haven't decided price yet
so that you could advise and think about
we already put on the screen you can get
your FICO score and we're gonna teach
you ways and you which you can improve
your FICO so
you can reduce cost a bar and stuff like
that we have to do a better job not just
us but the America educating people in
financial matters from rainy day funds
to handle you know retirement accounting
and so we're making especially have to
do that now it's only have things coming
out that hopefully our customers will
enjoy let's talk about the power of
business versus the power of government
the government legendarily got big
settlements from different banks 13
billion dollars from you
Keith Blood says that you pay a total of
44 billion did that money go into the
community and did that was that the way
to get things done versus the targeted
way you're doing well there's this
actually ups community I mean that some
of those funds we don't actually know
how they're dispersed and I think one
day someone to look at that and that
kind of the past we've moved forward
about how we do it for you but this is
how you build a community small business
lending affordable housing branches and
advise people and we know that that
works cities know this city philadelphia
your great hometown think the city is
doing better and better and better but
parts it or not and so we do make a
special effort in those parts of that
city now there is a sense that lending
nationally is slowed down I'm not
getting that from your bank can you give
us a sense of what's going on in places
that frankly are unbanked and whether
there is a revival that can actually
move the needle for you so one of one
important thing these things work when
you do it with civic society and
government okay they don't work we're at
each other so we've seen all around the
world when mayors not-for-profits
businesses work together you can get
people jobs you get them in train to get
them employed and it actually works and
so but in America America the economy is
quite strong and and it's growing at 3%
it has been now for a couple of quarters
and it looks like that way there are no
great potholes so let me very well
continue and so lending it there is a
little bit reduction lending in middle
market we don't exactly know why large
corporations of course bonds public
markets could clients be to flush I
think you know it we do know there's an
effect that through tax reform and
corporations or any money they need to
borrow less it's just hard to figure it
ease it out but what that really means
but if you told look at employment
growth people going back to work it's
pretty good all right now last week you
told CNBC that it's not a don't call it
a trade war call it a trade skirmish
obviously you've said that there could
be at times perhaps a slowdown or at
least in the psyche because of the of
any sort of trade war how do you feel
about I told at race course twenty
billion dollars of tariffs in and of
themselves are a little bit of attack if
they don't get paid as a tax in America
many people do other things right they
they have done supply lines but the
twenty trillion dollar economy so that
that is a negative
the real negative isn't that it's
confidence consistency if people start
reducing investment people start moving
the supply chains around that we have
seen already moves the markets a little
bit and so and the fear that the
skirmish may become a war so we we
really don't think it's a great way to
go bad it could easily offset some of
the benefits they've seen from
regulatory reform and tax reform
I won't you talking about regulate for
me yeah Marian Lake said recently a
fabulous CFO that we haven't really seen
genuine regulatory that would make her
happy but there's been so much it's been
change of attitude no yeah so I think if
you when I travel around CEOs of other
industries logistics steel manufacturing
pipeline they've all seen it have we
seen actual changes in regulation for us
not really they have a long list of
things they want to do
there has been regulatory change for the
smaller banks which we totally support
to make a little bit easier for them
reduced to burn them but it doesn't
didn't have any to do for the bigger
banks I think in the public you know
we're not asking for throwing out
dodd-frank
we're simply people's me look at
calibrating getting rid of duplication
looking at things that hurt the mortgage
market or at this kind of market so you
can enhance growth and do it safely know
was looking at you know going back to
good old days just recalibrating
remember there were two thousand rules
it was like one or two is a lot and they
were done in haste and people show his
rash and look at cost-benefit you know
what makes sense what doesn't all
keeping the system safer I remember
growth a stronger economy it also makes
the financial system safer now you just
mentioned no rate potholes we've got a
Fed meeting that's coming up this week
the spread that you would get to intend
to use the you know like the typical
logic that people say means that you
can't make as much money and if we can't
lend as much yeah so I'm gonna say they
know potholes the households in good
shape people going back to work
fight customers say five doors are fine
companies
flage tax reform is still a benefit we
don't have the extreme leverage we
hadn't Oh a and and all the lending has
been pretty good prime good good lending
so it's not been billing but absolutely
there's friction out there there's
always friction you open up a newspaper
any week of any month is tons of
friction and it's mounting brexit QE
turkey Argentina oh and we don't know
the full effect of those things so yeah
we keep our eye on that but it may not
derail the economy you're gonna see
separate the two I keep thinking these
are all things that should play to your
fortress balance sheet strength we've
not seen we got European banks that are
really really on the run so to speak why
isn't JPMorgan making Greater presents
given the weakness the rest of the world
well we do it we're in every country and
we're steady growing and we do country
by country anymore bankers systems
people and all the support risk legal
credit compliance so our share in Europe
is gone up considerably and and we're
just doing for adding people and adding
branches and you know the basic good old
three yards and a cloud of dust okay
when I hear stuffs I think you should
get a higher price dirties vulnerable
for Evans sake you're selling it twelve
times
next reserves we've been at this game
for a long time if for your growth
financial with money that's made every
single day you open the door
why aren't you valued like it's a
blessing to company that's a question
you're gonna have to answer your banks
are under still under political
regulatory constraints and all that we
just went through the crisis I think a
lot of people as investors buy always a
little worried but you're right worrying
very good returns in capital we're
growing you know whenever when a cycle
hit obviously could affect the bank but
we will manage right through that cycle
just like we did it right through the
last one okay when I think about that I
think that you must be in there buying
stock every day for the company you've
chosen a path of buying back stock
shrieky but I still many shares you have
for the last ten years your share count
is not going down enough when will you
start getting back to level that where
you really are not where you're sopping
up the door supply
I don't member the exact number but our
share counts down like fifteen percent
yeah but we're doing six versus ten
years ago two three five yes yeah well
there's someone had been issued over
time but since I've been there it's been
coming down so but if you want to look
at something I would prefer to spend
that money not buying back stock doing
this so growing our business is far
better for the economy right now we
don't have a lot
choices but over time I really would
prefer not to buy back stock you know
companies to do it would make sense I
also don't buy this argument that it's
bad buying back stock is simply giving
it back to you an investor who then
redeploys to a better use its
redeployment of capital that should be
redeployed if a company can't use it but
my my druthers always to grow our
business which we're now doing okay 500
branches we're now in all major cities
for investment banking middle market
banking etc we've been growing overseas
but think about any bankers and people
and stuff like that so that is my prep
p2p you invest know building products
and services so you're gonna see a lot
more than that coming the next 12 months
when I think about this and I'm very
proud of what you're doing in my home
city but I do say ok well Apple of pure
capitalist is you know this Jamie we're
shareholders we should get that money I
there's no real instant payoff here
within two three no it's not true
I mean first of all accounting you have
to be careful about but when we build a
branch okay and we put a million I don't
know we want to give the numbers
publicly we put capital in the branch
but five years later that branch could
could be earning contributing to profit
a million dollars a year so you know the
the timetable of that new cities it's a
little more complicated than we opened a
branch in the city wherein but again we
already serve 60 million households we
want to serve 70 million we want to
bring in with all the products and
service we have so there there is a
financial payoff it just it is not
overnight but I don't worry about that I
just explained to people like you that
that's okay the NPV is very good and it
could be negative the first year you
know maybe breakdowns by the third year
and then a plus hapless bog or
depositors of JPMorgan we're not getting
the rate that when are you gonna start
paying your CD and your depositors more
when rates came down the came down like
this as rates came down to zero banks
didn't do it so I'm rate started going
up they didn't pass it on I think now
you asleep you'll have other options
money market funds etc but I think now
as rates go up the next 25 the next 25
there's you'll see what we called beta
you know how much will be passed on
it'll go up and up and up well is that
going to shrink profitability
not I'd be worried not not really
because it's we're getting or gaining
deposits and the spread that you're
maintaining between your cost of funds
and your pain will be about the same
Jamie you're talking about with the
Politan just like the politicians did in
1964 you talk about a war on poverty
that business seems to be doing a better
job you mentioned it in the big
settlements from say 2013 when attorney
associate attorney general Tony West was
kind of after the bank that was you be
on the defensive you're playing the
offensive and trying to change poverty
in this country do you feel that you can
do it better in the government no I
think I feel you I think government and
business have to do it together and it
works at a local level we see it in
Detroit we see it in New Orleans we see
in Chicago we see in LA you see in
Philadelphia with great ideas and most
of the things you talk about affordable
housing skills commercial development
audra it's not Democrat a Republican but
I think business and government together
can do it business you can't do without
business and business can't do without
government you know government obviously
is gonna play a role in both the terms
of regulation and licensing and stuff
like that
and while America is the most prosperous
nation on the planet we really have to
focus on these issues about income
inequality infrastructure opioid crisis
lack of education Zinna state schools
end up in good jobs Jamie yeah you know
what you sound like when you say these
things you sound like a politician I'm a
patriot okay but if you're a patriot so
is generalizing now we didn't know
whether there's a Democrat a Republican
buddy ran for president he was a patreon
world war two well I'm a banker guy I'm
not running I just I think it's very
important that we have good policy and
that we should focus on good policy and
all the time and you know as you know I
don't mind speaking about good policy
analyze it and participate in a way to
JPMorgan can so if you're in other areas
or other couples will do a better job
than we camps they're far more
knowledgeable but in these kind of areas
we can really help communities are good
business skills ever really transferable
to government though I think some are
yeah I mean administration management
leadership organization but that doesn't
mean a CEO will translate to a good
politician you know politicians have a
whole set of different skills and you
know relating to people and
understanding empathy and so but it
doesn't mean I would never say never
that people can or can't some have done
it most have they don't say never say
never again it brings me back to the
dial I would never say never for someone
else I would not say a CEO cannot be a
good president do you think it's too
soon and president Trump was a CEO so
you just
Mir Mir Kenny Philadelphia that's
something that would not I don't say
frowned upon but wouldn't be believable
ten years ago when bankers were it
considered to be antithetical to
democracy even because of President
Obama what has it changed enough that
now you're welcoming communities that
were solid democratic areas that
Democrat areas that I think really
abhorred banks it's nice to be welcomed
but but just so you know we never stop
seeing mayors governors presidents prime
ministers said it even though even
people who didn't like us because we
always said it isn't about they're like
are we doing a good job or the
legitimate complaints we should handle
what should we do to make it better for
people and so we never stopped doing it
but it's nice that's done you know when
people do like yeah okay I want to speak
about the country you have been on
record saying we know greatest military
greatest educational system is there
know the best educated the best and the
worst okay well we're failing inner-city
school kids half them don't graduate
like in the poor neighborhoods and a lot
of kids aren't getting the skills they
need to have a job and so that is a
feeling we should be ring ringing and
alarm bell about that but we don't and I
don't know why well I don't what can you
do beyond what you already did what
we're doing a tremendous amount in skill
so what we do in skills we go to local
schools like we now working a Guttman in
New York to train and my wife did this
by the way to train kids to be tellers
$36,000 a year twelve thousand medical
and pension benefits the kids like the
jobs and that's the first rung then they
can move up they can become a banker and
live in a lot of our branch manager
we're tellers and a lot of the regional
manager would tell us so we could do it
for ourselves but we also help schools
locally well it's a high school well
it's apprenticeships whether it's a
community college with money but it's
not just us it's all businesses need
jobs locally they need special training
so it really has to be done low guy
should be a national point 1.5 trillion
dollars in student loans 23 percent
default last year supposed to be 40
percent by 2023
I know Marion Lake said look that's not
really an issue for a bank but how about
for a country it's a huge issue you know
we that we've lent the goodness all
government lending by the way you should
and bad lending is bad whether it was
the mortgages you make or businesses one
of the things you have to do is have
discipline around capital so you get a
return Bridget to nowhere
bad schools that don't work are bad
Eleni new money people care is a it's a
mistake so that student Lenny was a
tremendous amount that's been done in
the last seven years the folks having a
hard time paying it back it's all owned
by the government so it's the taxpayers
gonna lose whatever hundreds of billions
of dollars but it is not good because
what we're seeing today is that in other
lending so mortgages these kids are
having a hard time getting mortgage
credit card having a hard time getting a
credit card is affecting the economy
it's not like the mortgage crisis
it's a trillion three or trillion four
so it's not I wouldn't call statistical
it's just unfortunate unfortunate okay
let's go back to international for a
second you talked about the idea of the
tariff so far they you've got a skirmish
but at what point would it be a war and
at what point should we be worried that
it's really going overboard
you know I I worry about it and I just
don't know you know I mean I think China
has been very predictable in retaliation
and I think the market kind of expected
a tit-for-tat retaliation I think
they're kind of expecting NAFTA to get
done it could get worse from here and I
just I really don't know what I hope it
does I hope that they sit down have
rational conversations and we have a
both NAFTA which we should do cuz Canada
Mexico good neighbors of ours I'm going
down in Mexico later this week and with
China and I don't know what the
conversations are behind closed doors
anymore so I I really don't know if I
urge I think we should try to get well
again the president raised very very
very good issues we're only talking
about the process boats at this
conclusion I hope their process works I
just think it's kind of a riskier way of
the president said the problem with
banker jamie dimon running for president
he doesn't have the app tutor the smarts
and is a poor public speaker nervous
mess that doesn't sound like cooperation
but how did you patch that up I mean I'm
sure in the last 10 days you patched
this I I have not spoken to president
yeah then and and but Mike in my I made
a mistake I shouldn't have yeah laugh
Yap like that in which some of you were
mentioned on TV but I do want to focus
on policy so my view is I let's just
focus on policy I shouldn't be taking no
shots and having jokes at anyone's
expense would you think would you put
this in the case of say the London whale
where you said it was the stupidest
thing that wants us we used the
stupidest most embarrassing situation
ever been part of
it's this right up there with the line
and web no no I've said a lot of stupid
things in my life but London well we
bought some real money because what I'm
thinking about is the things you're
saying are common-sense things that
we've not heard from bankers we've heard
from bankers be on the defensive for a
decade you really are saying here's how
public-private partnership
make not make these neighborhoods better
get better since much better schools and
we change our country you change it city
by city you're trying but again you have
a lot of guests on TV you ask most of
them what they're doing a lot of these
companies are doing stuff just like this
there's not just JP Morgan but all these
companies are part of the BRT
but we actually put out a booklet of the
work skills everyone's doing something
and everyone's doing a lot in diversity
the other things were falling behind
other countries we've seen I think in
total we're slipping I think the bad
policy is why we've grown to 2% over the
last ten years and not more and that 2%
and the American public should know 20%
growth in 10 years is half what it
should have been it's China gonna pass
us I doubt it okay we this country is
blessed with things that are just way
beyond those schools and you revert the
good part the university is land water
energy the Atlantic Pacific are the best
businesses innovation but we had to sit
at series of problems we fixed one an
uncompetitive tax system for business
that was a bad idea we have to fix
immigration inner-city schools opioids
we have to give Don's the chance to have
a job we've got to get people back to
the work skills we should double the
Earned Income Tax Credit and what is
that what happens I have one to point
out it's reason and we should have a
negative income tax of some sort make
make jobs that people have because jobs
give dignity jobs have better social
outcomes but they need to be a living
wage so I agree with that concept when I
hear from folks and the Earned Income
Tax Credit does that and we need to
double we should double it and you have
to pay more so bad Satya Nadella the CEO
of Microsoft you've brought this group
together
Shantanu Narayan from Adobe bill
McDermott from s AP I've never seen
anything quite like this frankly and
I've been doing this on air and and in
print for a while more than a trillion
dollars worth of market cap represented
by you three gentlemen sitting here and
you're announcing the open data
initiative in the cloud Satya
is this so important you know the
insight that all three of us had based
on the work we're doing with many
customers you know we talked about
coca-cola Unilever Walmart today as
customers were all excited about this
open data initiative it's their real
insight that led us to do this which is
how do we work to put them in control of
their own customer data because that's
the real currency any brand out there
cares deeply about the continuous
improvement of their own customer data
is understanding and the three of us
coming together is going to be central
to them feeling in control of their own
customer data and the idea being
Microsoft with Azure Dynamics you've got
a certain set of customer data adobe
you've got the experience cloud you've
got lots of marketing data different
types of data about the customer and how
companies are trying to reach out to the
customer s ap you've got lots of data to
a lot of it having to do with what's
going on inside the company that's
affecting customers outside as well so
what our customer is going to be able to
do and maybe bill I'll toss this one to
you that they couldn't do before once
you figure out this open data thing and
they're able to read data across all of
your platforms John there isn't a CEO in
the world that does not want to have a
single view of their customer and they
have to connect their demand chain to
their supply chain and do so in
real-time so if you think about the
consumer who's social mobile they're
geospatial they're always on the fly
they're going to shop different
companies in all channels direct to
consumer wholesale retail and you have
to make sure that connection point with
that consumer is really intimate so
these companies need to be intelligent
enterprises because more and more a I
and predictive analytics is going to
rule and how you engage with that
customer but ultimately what you have to
do is fulfill so now you're going to see
the demand and the supply chain
completely integrated and that data will
be shared evenly among our companies so
the customer is the major benefactor of
the open data initiative we
today and Shantanu you just announced
that Adobe that you're buying Marketo
for I think it was four point seven five
billion I'll try to ask you about that a
few days before you weren't ready to
talk to me about it but you can talk
about it now how does that move an
experienced cloud and what you're trying
to build there fit into this broader
story well I think all three of us
shared this vision of how do we enable
enterprises to put customers at the
front of the digital journey and Satya
and Bill said getting behavioral data
getting transactional data and getting
customer engagement to be the front and
center I think is the most important
thing that enterprises can do so that
digital is actually a tailwind rather
than headwind what Marketo does is add
to our offerings in the experience cloud
of being able to create this unified
profile for all customers and the thing
that every customer will tell you today
is that they want an engaging experience
with whoever they're doing business with
whether it's financial services whether
it's automotive whether it's retail and
Adobe focused a lot more on b2c
customers but the same requirements that
were true for b2c customers are now true
for b2b customers and that's what
Marketo provides it's actually a bunch
of senior execs built from sa P that are
now you know running Marketo so is this
a closed party are Amazon Google
Salesforce welcome to this initiative
how does it work from here now that you
guys know they're very clear of it the
name itself should sort of tell
everything it's an open data initiative
you guys some technology name things all
kinds of stuff spirit here is not about
us it is about really unlocking the data
that is our customers data about their
own customers but I think what is
foundational here is trust in other
words ultimately customers will decide
and compliance with their own customers
trust in them is also going to be very
key because if you think about it one of
them top considerations for anything
around customer data is
privacy and regulation around privacy so
the most important thing here would be
for each vendor to think through how
they participate here and ensure that
there is more trust in the entirety of
the value chain starting with the end
consumer to the brand and to us as
software vendors or you know tech
companies and so I think depending on
the business models I think the real
challenge is going to be for some who
may want to join but their business
model is probably not going to allow
them to join like you think it's going
to be harder for an Amazon or a Google
you you'll have to ask them but I think
overall though what we have all anchored
on is if we can create an architecture
and an incentive system that turns the
tide to put customers in control of
their own customer data I think the
overall economy will be better off no so
that's what we are trying to get done if
I may add to that for a second I mean
what we have already demonstrated by
having a common taxonomy for this
customer journey meaning what meaning
how you define a customer how you define
the demographics how you define the
lifetime value how you define their
interests we have actually agreed across
the companies despite the fact that we
have some overlapping products in that
space I think demonstrates our
commitment to this open data initiative
and the fact that you have customers who
are excited about building on top of the
foundation that we have I think gives us
a lot of confidence that this is the
right thing for enterprises bill he'll
anything because it's gonna take take
two to actually get the badge today
it's the specs out on this year
initiatives so that other companies can
join people understand what they have to
do with their platforms with their
software to be compliant I think the big
announcement today represents that
Microsoft Adobe in SA P have already
begun this journey so in terms of others
wanting to join the journey we're happy
to share the reference architecture
around the o di initiative I do think
the big story here though is trust and I
think Satya and Shantanu both said it
very well think about trust as the
ultimate human
see think about customer experience is
the most important priority think about
the power of getting the people inside
these companies to focus clearly on
what's going on outside of these
companies this idea of the net present
value of a more satisfied and loyal
customer plus making the employees more
inspired and more loyal is probably the
biggest value driver that we can ever
come up with
I mean think about this a five percent
improvement in retention is equivalent
to a ninety five percent improvement in
profit for most companies so if we can
connect that data to their consumers and
give them an unimaginably good
experience what is that going to do for
revenues and profits for all the
companies that we care for big big
breakthrough so we're talking about
flexibility we're talking about
efficiency and the backdrop here we've
got a UN General Assembly meeting we've
got something going on with the Deputy
Attorney General in Washington perhaps a
change happening there we've got a trade
war happening between the US and China
and that's arguably not the only one
going on to what extent is politics
having an impact on the demand for
product your ability to project what
what what demand is going to be out in
the marketplace these days or as
business just coming on as usual I mean
the thing at least that we see thanks in
part to the industry we participate in
is digital technology is increasingly
becoming pervasive when all parts of the
world in all sectors of the economy and
so therefore I think it's incumbent on
us as the tech industry to ensure that
these businesses are creating
opportunity in every economy in every
society because if you think about it
the politics is always going to be
associated with what's the well-being of
any region any community in any country
and as long as technology can play a
role in that ultimate success in
creating surplus that's equitably
distributed I think these short-term
bumps will work out but to me that's
what it is what both I think we have a
real opportunity which we are obviously
sizing but you also have a
responsibility to make sure the
technologies benefits a broad spectrum
broad spread and bill sa P a German
company technically how does not being a
us-based company at this time when
there's a lot of trade tension between
the US and Europe
between the US and a lot of different
countries in Asia how is that affecting
the way people look at sa P when they're
looking to engage with technology and
build up their business well obviously
we we consider ourselves a truly global
software company I think that's very
important distinction there is no doubt
however that tensions between for
example some Asian countries and the
United States are pretty high right now
and it's probably less so for a German
company if you think about where
headquarters might be located but in all
seriousness I think we're focused in an
all tech leaders are responsible around
wanting things to work out between
countries and technology companies and
right now I think we all would benefit
greatly from you know an environment
where we stay focused on growth and to
me open countries are prosperous
countries and if you look at the history
of the world anytime a country has been
open it's actually equalled more
Commerce more opportunities for
everybody
so we abide by that principle but
there's no doubt in the ASEAN countries
in particular I see a newfound strength
in our business model Shantanu it feels
to me like we're entering a new era in
cloud where more M&A more partnerships
and initiatives like this one how do you
look at the market because it seems for
a while big companies like you guys were
holding off on doing a lot of M&A
because things were expensive but your
values gone up too and it seems like
your pace of M&A has picked up a bit
what's your take on on the market for
M&A right now well first I think you
know all three of us were early adopters
of the cloud and recognized the benefits
of
more rapid innovation that we could do
on the cloud of the trust and security
that comes from all of this data being
in the cloud but you know I think we
look at it and say in order to really
solve fundamental customer problems
putting the onus on integration on
customers to work with a number of small
companies is just not going to work and
that's where I think you know what we're
trying to do with ODI is say if leaders
in our categories can come together and
make it work that's going to be
extremely facilitative of companies
doing it so I do think you'll see more
consolidation as a result of IT
professionals not wanting to integrate
small systems but to rely on large
companies who are innovating at a fast
pace certainly if you're the same yeah I
mean I think one of the things that
we're really doing is bringing down the
friction and improving the agility one
of the interesting things that you know
Bill mentioned was say the ASEAN region
if you look at cloud AI and the open
data initiative the idea that even a
small business in Indonesia can now use
Sapa Adobe and Microsoft to become that
much more efficient is the real
opportunity so you're bringing down that
barrier to be able to use the latest and
greatest technology for every business
in every part of the world by really
working together it's easy to get
started it's easy to take data from one
place to the other easy to use AI to
reason over it to create new experiences
and it's amazing it's in some sense
we're commoditizing the technology as an
input for driving business ok and on ma
you expect to see an increased pace I
think ma first of all if you look at all
of our R&D budgets I think most people
obviously gravitate towards M&A but the
organic investments that each of us are
making is by far the largest of course
we're going to complement that
supplement that with M&A where it makes
sense but I think the real thing that
you're seeing is growth in across all
our businesses which is driven by
fundamentally organic growth well it's
an extraordinary moment having the three
of you sitting here talking
about this open data initiative Satya
Nadella thanks for bringing it all
together Shantanu narayan from Adobe
bill McDermott frame/s AAP Thank You
skies in New York back to you the market
has been by virtue of the fact that
we've had this record-setting run the
Dow joins the the record-setting move
last week the market has been able to
ignore almost everything that comes out
of Washington so how do you put this
into the calculus today for investors I
think today's event in itself probably
will not will not play a big role I
think the biggest risk out of Washington
is basically trade escalation and
potential for tariff implementation
we've seen some already and we need to
see what happens as far as 2019 goes
from the metals have been exceptionally
strong when you look at equities you've
seen an extremely healthy buyback trade
also that continues to support a market
along with valuations that are by no
means stretched so we think you have a
good backdrop we just need basically
need to see what happens with terms
because those are a risk to 2019 numbers
market was already going to be down
today as a result of these reports that
China canceled the meeting over over
trade so we took that leg lower as I
said on the Rosenstein headlines but
it's it's been remarkable though that
the market hasn't really cared much
about trade either for more than a few
hours or a day I mean when you look at
when you look at earnings earnings so
far have not really been there hasn't
been any material impact in terms of
bottom line prints and earnings so far
companies are starting to talk more and
more about risk around terrorists but
like again not no impact on earnings
thus far I think that's a risk that
we're basically paying close attention
to for 2019 and that's where I think
you're seeing a market has been fairly
fairly resilient so far we you're not
working into your models trying to
factor in what happens in the midterms
we're only six weeks out it's very hard
I mean look there is phase one has been
implemented on tariffs part of phase 2
has been implemented discussion about
phase 3 clearly phase 3 goes through
numbers for 2019 we think will come down
at least by five bucks in terms of for
EPS if possibly up to 10 but again it's
very hard to distinction between what's
reality and what's basically noise yeah
well we're gonna get the midterm
elections that that's not noise I mean
it's the reality of what's gonna happen
the outcome is is far unknown at this
point Lindsey so how do you factor it
all in yeah it's definitely hard to
factor and usually you see volatility
increase significantly in the third
quarter going into midterm elections are
usually up 34
or percent we haven't seen that this
year looking a lot of the different
pools that are out there it seems like
the Democrats are gonna take over the
house which would just result in more
gridlock within Congress which doesn't
bode well for growth and the market
going forward I don't know what could be
negative about gridlock in the in the
White House or in in Washington what
could they do we've got the tax plan
there right yeah you've got the economy
that's going you know on all cylinders
so why would gridlock be negative you
know what I misstated I don't mean that
it will be negative what I really mean
is that you're not gonna see any growth
policies really be pushed through
there's just gonna be infighting not a
lot is going to get done and you're
right the market usually typically does
well when there is a gridlock in the
market I just don't expect increase
amounts of violence there is a gridlock
is good right yeah right and and I and I
think that the way that Congress is is
positioned now and the way that it's
anticipated the election will come out
which is the house with the Democrats
and the Senate with the Republicans that
could change but even if that happens
we've got the growth policies in effect
we've got regulations that haven't cut
back
we've got tax plan going forward so I
don't see what the issue is with that I
think gridlock would be fine in terms of
what happens with Rosen Stein going
forward I don't really see the issues
there either to me maybe this is the
smoking gun that allows Trump to go
after Jeff Sessions and say he worked
for you you should have known this you
should have kept him in check even then
though I think it's a momentary sell in
the market but the market keeps going
I'm with you I'm more concerned about
inflation we're seeing used-car prices
move up while oil is not part of the
core still the impact of higher energy
prices feeds into everything the
feedstock so that's my biggest concern
so the market seems to be taking a three
point 10 ten-year roughly the report
window in stride de Bravo your year-end
targets 3,000 we're not all that far
away from that level as we speak at what
point do you start to get a little more
bullish is there a chase for performance
into into year-end do you take some
comfort that these high-growth sectors
which have fueled much of this rally
have taken what appears to be a little
bit of a backseat these value stocks
that should be going up in in what is a
very strong economy are finally even
with tariffs industrial stocks are
performing so well so we've had this
price target out for now almost a year
and we've had to defend it on many
different occasions earlier this year
where there was a lot of volatility
market continues to be quite resilient I
think actually the market probably would
have been above 3000 already if it
wasn't for trade and trade escalation
and an old Terrier discussion so for us
again we're really looking at 2019 right
now if you look at consensus it's
implying about 10 percent growth we
think 11 percent is something that's
achievable but again that's very months
of contingent upon what happens with
tariffs if we think that thing things
start to converge you get some form of
resolution I would say the market
probably can move a lockstep with
earnings for next year maybe five to ten
percent but if there is getting
implemented then I think we need to
perhaps take a pause terrace bring the
inflation and Steve's correct to
identify that I think what you're seeing
right now in the US ten years is that
you're gonna see a move towards three
and a quarter percent I also think when
you look at energy right now I think the
street is under invested as it relates
to energy oil prices you've got Brent
above $80 right now the trend for
Brent's crude oil for the remainder of
the year is gonna be higher and higher
know myself personally I'm adding to my
energy exposure I think the trend is
cent there but I think there's a little
bit for everyone on a day like today so
yes you have some of the value names you
you close the gap between growth and
value over the last couple of weeks and
and if you look at the market equal
weight versus cap weighted okay equal
weight is slightly outperforming but on
a day like today there's a little bit
for everyone so you've seen technology
names come back a little bit today
they're outperforming some of these
value oriented Intex still on pace for
its worst month since its March it is
but but but the question is do you
exhaust the the move that we've seen
without tech coming back it's happened
before listen it's happened before again
so you might have in July and August
borrowed a little bit from September I
don't think that changes the overall
trend for technology itself Friday you
get this communication services sector
so talking to a lot of hedge fund
managers this weekend they're gonna lose
Google they're going to lose Facebook
they're gonna lose
TripAdvisor they're gonna Bava is gonna
go into the consumer discretionary now
much much further investments how much
further Josh can the market go up from
here without tech joining joining me in
there well we've proved that it's not
necessary this this quarter healthcare
is up almost 12% and industrials were up
11% and we made new record highs in the
Dow last week we made a new record high
in the SP on several occasions
so you actually proved it already that
you can have the best leading sector on
a three-year basis take a pause and
other sectors provided the earnings
backdrop is strong and the market itself
is stable can take the lead and can push
the index to new high look listen
retailers at multi-year highs some of
them all-time highs
who would have thought that was possible
going back to as recently as December
January so yeah it would be great if
Amazon wasn't nine percent off a tie and
Netflix was making new high every day
and Apple was making new high-end high
do you expect a rebound I'm making the
point that it's okay if it's not
personally I think the fattest pitch in
the entire stock market right now is
alphabet technically the set up here I
think if you get this thing probably 20
25 points higher where really nobody is
down in this stock significantly
outperforming Facebook in the midst of
this large cap tech drawdown alphabet is
the name but but put that one idea aside
the bigger picture idea and I think this
was alluded to earlier actually gridlock
would be phenomenal the American public
told the Gallup poll recently that they
prefer it including Republicans they
want to check on this president at this
point even if they're Republicans it's
number one number two if you actually
look going back to 1950 the stock market
does the the third best of any outcome
when you have a Republican in the White
House and one house of Congress
controlled by Democrats it's not the
best possible scenario but it's the
third no that's not negative but that's
why we ask the questions to our experts
about the political calculus if
Rosenstein is actually fired and what
the outcome could be if that could tilt
the outcome at all America schools or
dramatic midterms
really good question if you were if you
would ask me in December what's the
biggest risk to the stock market I would
not have said recession or earnings or
any of the or oil or any of that stuff
the dollar I would have said an
exogenous shock caused by something in
Washington where we get a Saturday night
Saturday night mass massacre and
everyone loses confidence in the US
stock market at once
I no longer believe that's the case
because I think the market now expects
some version of impeachment proceedings
this fall not saying it'll be successful
I'm not saying Trump is in trouble I'm
just saying the market now expects this
this is the base case that we are gonna
have a vicious political know maybe
maybe Jimmy the exhaustion exogenous
shock is the Democrats taking both
houses and I mean at some point when you
got wood shop tomorrow I think that
would be the shock six weeks out let's
not forget it's not that way where all
of those questions are gonna be asked
why because it's very unexpected I mean
and I'm sure you do your polls as well
everybody's expecting a democratic house
and a Senate Republican or choosing a
Republican Senate look if they go
through impeachment in that in that
scenario you've got to stop in the
Senate if it's Republican it goes
nowhere if it's Democratic then you
actually have to think about the
investigations go on though let me
because the big question here is what
has the market priced in at least that's
the big question to me we've got a
divergence here that's telling us the
market is pricing in a lot of bad things
what's that divergence you've got killer
earnings all right the last two quarters
earnings have just blown the cover off
the ball and expectations still go
higher you mentioned that in terms of 5
to 10 percent growth this late in the
cycle 5 to 10 percent growth year over
year is incredible but the multiple has
contracted to turns since the beginning
of the year that is the markets way of
saying don't know if it's tariffs don't
know if it's impeachment don't know if
it's in place you'd think the marketing
that all in there and what they yield on
the - you think the market has priced in
the worst of tariffs yes no you think
the market has to either I think wait
let me get the punchline here ok
whatever whether it's priced in all the
tariffs are not Joe okay it's priced in
bad news that's why we're - turns out no
what has he you never get a
dude the Mobile's contracted because
rates have risen slowly and shortly but
they had they were the yield on the -
excuse me the yield on a two-year the
other than ten year they've risen and as
a result yeah you should not have an
expanding stock market multiple you have
great earnings tempered by the fact that
money is not as cheap as it was okay so
it's not like a rocket science wait a
second it's never one thing so don't say
that it's just mostly one thing and
don't no it's not it's not and by the
way we've got earnings season coming up
there's been no pre announcements okay
this looks like the feel free to make
your point but let's make them go here
right then I'll just summarize look
you're setting up for another good
earnings season third in a row what's
gonna meet are we gonna have
expectations on earnings continue to
rise and multiples contract I don't
think so it's more likely at this stage
in the cycle that the multiple starts to
pick up but we have that much of a
disagreement on the desk as to whether
tariffs are fully priced they're not
president at this point last week I was
talking about that there was going to be
a trilateral agreement between Mexico
Canada and the US and that's why the
market was rally we we have not got that
so far and I think as it relates to
what's going on with the Chinese further
implementation of these tariffs raises
prices that's a problem for the US
consumer that's a problem for US
corporations and it is an inflationary
impact but the market doesn't draw
economy clearly the market doesn't think
that it's going to be that punitive to
earning 100 this point absolutely I said
that I disagree I think what is priced
in right now is a favorable outcome at
some point can I kind of just come back
to his point pre-announcement sleaze
I'll disagree facts had put out piece on
it last week saying that it's been the
highest percentage of negative pre
announcements since the first quarter of
2016 but you can't really have it both
ways you can't say that so much is
priced into the market yet strong
earnings which everybody's been talking
about and uniformly agrees are going to
occur this quarter isn't priced in well
that's the point expectations are
extremely high going into the third
quarter because we've had such great
numbers out of the
first and second quarter your the
expectations are high going into third
quarter you just saw the CEO Business
Roundtable confidence come out today
CEOs are worried about tariffs you heard
ups talk about it they said it only
impacted about 10 percent of their
revenues so far micron mentioned it
we're going to hear this word on
conference call significantly we need to
wait till the conference rolls right
Macy's Office Depot I could go down the
list are you all threat Smith and I grew
that and so I think what you after pairs
look CEO so do one of two things they're
not going to say hey Trump's doing the
wrong thing right they'll couch it and
say hey we're more cautious going
forward because of the cost inputs going
higher to your point we had the last
quarter in the quarter before that great
earnings without the tariff issues and
what the markets do after the quarterly
announcements what they did what you did
have then I want to Bravo fishes in
their last time and also you got to use
the numbers here two hundred billion ten
percent tariffs twenty billion dollars a
year on the sp500 I don't think it's
going to show up I understand the
concern about inflation so I'm not
saying it's not there I'm saying it's
small and that's in the market that's
what I'm saying
question whether the worst of the
tariffs where them are here listen a
year but you've suggested yes I did I'm
standing by it you're halfway through
what the maximum possible tariffs down
if we don't play if you get 25 percent
on another you throw in another 267 okay
you're you're correct that I'm assuming
rationality you've got against you now
you've got the referee on you to if we
continue to play a game of I'll see your
200 billion and raise you another 50
billion that's gonna be a problem for
the market in 2005 go no I think I think
tariffs are partially priced in I don't
think entirely I think if you do go into
phase 3
I mean first of all I think if they
implement 25 percent on phase 2 that in
itself will likely bring down some of
the numbers in 19 which I don't think
it's fully priced in I do think
partially it is
I think multiple is a function of rates
at fully agree I do think that trade
however is also something that's
limiting the multiple from re-rating
maybe not by 2x but regrading by 1x
gridlock just another thing I just want
to mention real quickly I do fully agree
gridlock I think is a positive because
out of DC last year you had a probe
with agenda this year you have an anti
growth so you get a gridlock I think the
market likes that can I ask you this
market has been driven by buybacks
if the CEOs get a whiff of a slowdown in
growth do you think you'll continue to
see the aggressive nature of buybacks
that we've seen the last couple more you
need to see it even more so if that's
what they need to grow earnings they
would double down on by that there's no
indication that they are seeing this
slow hold on we had Jamie Dimon the the
JPMorgan CEO on just a few moments ago
with her own Jim Cramer it's a CNBC
exclusive interview in Philadelphia
here's what he said about the state of
the economy America the economy is quite
strong and and it's growing at 3% it has
been now for a couple quarters and looks
like that way there are no great
potholes so let me very well continue no
indication from Jamie Dimon sees a whole
lot of stuff and the things that he
looks at that we're gonna get that
slowdown that you say well if we get a
slowdown companies maybe gonna buy a
little less of their stock back I think
look at the big risk is tariffs and
impact on margins I think when you look
at the economy you're basically looking
employment which is very strong job at
strong you're finally seeing some wage
inflation which is basically helping the
consumers and actually there's one thing
that if you look at q2 guide as most
companies we're actually talking about
the consumer strength right so again I
don't think that the earnings picture is
III don't think it's that clear that you
know expect expectations have risen but
I don't think they're extreme terrace is
a negative but on the other side I think
you have an economist what is the house
view on what's the house view on the
ten-year and quit and and just just the
premium and how small it's gotten and
and what do you think really would
impact stock prices if it's not you know
if we're not really gonna worry about
the curve then what would we worry about
I'm glad you asked that question because
my next question to you was going to be
we've gone you know 22 minutes here and
we talked about all of these potential
risk inflation I get it but the the word
the Fed hasn't even been mentioned yet
they're gonna be front and center this
week I want to have a wild card is that
and it plays right into Josh's question
yes so look the the Fed hiking rates I
think is a gradual negative it is eating
into margins slowly but we estimated
margins for instance when you look at
earnings
just won't get impacted entirely until
Phet hikes for another at least 5200
bits if you look at interest expense and
the debt levels
I think the multiple is a function of
yields again if yields move higher say
north of three and a half three and
three quarters I do think this becomes
an issue but let's first get there again
our house view I would say probably is
more in line with the three and a
quarter to three and a half now pension
funds US pension funds corporate pension
funds government pension funds are just
insatiable buyers of tenure Treasury
they're getting way heavy into private
equity and so to counter that lack of
liquidity
it's a barbell on the other side they're
going nuts on on trade which i think is
the reason for this narrowing spread and
not economic concern would you agree
with that agree yes I've had many many
PM's basically tell me asset alligators
tell me 10-year yield at three percent
that's a buying opportunity for like the
whole world yes huge pools of because
when you look at what's happening abroad
with Germany Japan its so where do you
think so the question that I ask people
that nobody knows the answer to because
we're in sea rescue for environment is
where do you see restrictive policy now
it used to be over five percent clearly
that could be there anymore no where is
it so I would say probably three and
three-quarters
four percent anything above that I think
becomes restrictive unless we have new
reasons coming out suggesting growth
will accelerate but you don't have your
your you know your sector waiting czar
what would you recommend right now is
the top three places to be in the market
we've been pushing the last several
months a barbell portfolio I'm sort of
using the same same same term here
basically we continue to like tech
because we do think that the late cycle
you won't have exposure to growth people
pay a premium for gross car sitting but
at the same time given how extreme
dislocation levels have become in the
market we're saying don't be naked on
the value side have value anchors we
like financials with like industrials we
like energy but you're I guess the
reason I asked you the question is by
virtue of the fact that you have those
sectors tech financials industrials
energy growth cyclical you can't be
worried about all that much no we're not
we think that the business of the
economic cycle is intact not just in the
US but globally again I keep mentioning
tariffs and trade escalation is my
biggest worry
for 2019 in terms of do we move sideways
or do we potentially move higher by 10%
when you look at the emerging markets
relative to where they are versus the US
is that a great opportunity on a
longer-term basis we do think so we do
think that emerging markets increasingly
becoming a very attractive opportunity
risk reward is quite attractive
positioning is very negative sentiment
is very negative I'm with you on this
china mean is basically in a recession
territory when you look at the gap
between US and in China we think look
there's there's a lot of interesting
buying opportunities it's very difficult
coming up with the catalysts and timing
the catalyst but again a six-month a
12-month view we think am definitely I
think the risk though on that trade well
you get more reward but so much more has
to go right for you to get the reward
now I disagree we actually did a lot of
work on this recently we had some
questions from clients it turns out when
you buy emerging markets as an end as a
sector as an asset class after 20%
declines the CNBC exclusive hey again
Jeff thank you so much Karl yep we're
here with Jamie Dimon Jamie this is
quite a commitment to an area that
frankly has gone from bank to unbanked
city just pulled out over the course the
last five years 50 million dollars it
networked 330 banks and closed in the
last ten years why why not yeah well you
know with regulatory reform and tax
reform where you now says 20 billion
dollar thing going to many cities
obviously Philadelphia is the seventh
largest mark in the United States that's
not including their biggest suburb
called New York and you know we and we
like to be part of a community we're
already here in investment banking
commercial banking and private banking
retail is a gap so we're gonna open 50
branches 20 percent will be in LMI
neighborhoods neighborhoods like this
and we've come in we bring the full
force of JP Morgan which is philanthropy
dollars but to really help people like
entrepreneur color funds affordable
housing units and and we enjoy it it's
good for the company and over time and
where we invest the long run we never
pull in and out of something talked
about the multiplier effect and when you
open a branch people think you know what
we don't need branches anymore
everything's digital yeah but brick the
more works it's amazing so I think
people aren't thinking clearly a million
people visited branches every day the
type of branch is going to change the
size the branch can change they're
getting smaller but more advice so the
mortgage loan office in there there's a
small business loan officer there's a
financial adviser but your financial
affairs so that
change but a million people even even
the average millennial visits something
like three times in a quarter so to me
the question of brands no more forget
they'll change but you still need to
serve your client the way they want to
be served not the way I want to serve
them as you know we've rolled out all
these new products too right like like
finding the online-only back well I
mention this because a lot of people
feel that 10 years ago one of the
problems was the education the borrower
the boy or did not know enough about
what to do you said to be someone in
there literally to help and to teach
yeah well that make a difference versus
say 10 years ago yeah I've told the
people here when you go to these LMI
neighborhoods try something special but
we're gonna roll a lot of financial
education tools we have you invest we're
gonna roll out a self advised group and
we haven't decided pricey yet so that
you could advise and think of that we
already put on the screen you can get
your FICO score and we're gonna teach
you ways and you which you can improve
your FICO so that you can reduce cost a
bar and stuff like that we have to do a
better job not just us but the America
educating people in financial matters
from rainy day funds to handle you know
retirement accounting and so we're
making especially have to do that now
it's only have things coming out that
hopefully our customers will enjoy let's
talk about the power of business versus
the power of government the government
legendarily got big settlements from the
different banks 13 billion dollars from
you yeah Keith Blood says that you paid
a total of 44 billion
did that money go into the community and
did that was that the way to get things
done versus the targeted way you're
doing well this actually helps community
I mean that some of those funds we don't
actually know how they disbursed and I
think one day someone should look at
that and you know I kind of passed we've
moved forward about how we do it for you
but this is how you build a community
small business lending affordable
housing branches that advise people and
we know that that works cities know this
city philadelphia your great hometown
let's take this city is doing better and
better and better but parts it or not
and so we do make a special effort in
those parts of that city now there is a
sense that lending nationally is slowed
down I'm not getting that from your bank
can you give us a sense of what's going
on in places that frankly are unbanked
and whether there is a revival that can
actually move the needle field so one of
one important thing these things work
when you do it with civic society and
government okay they don't work we're at
each other so we've seen all around the
world when mayors and not-for-profits
businesses work together you can get
people jobs you get them in train to get
them employed and it actually works and
so but in America America the economy is
quite strong and and it's growing at 3%
it has been now for a couple of quarters
and looks like that way there are no
great potholes so let me very well
continue and so lending it there is a
little bit reduction lending in middle
market we don't exactly know why large
corporations of course bonds public
markets could clients be to flush I
think you know it we do know there's an
effect that through tax reform and
corporations earning money they need to
borrow less it's just hard to figure it
ease it out but what that really means
but if you took it look at employment
growth people going back to work it's
pretty good
alright now last week you told CNBC that
it's not a don't call it a trade war
call it a trade skirmish previously you
have said that there could be at times
perhaps a slowdown or at least in the
psyche because of the of any sort of
trade war how do you feel about that I
call it racecourse twenty billion
dollars of tariffs in and of themselves
are a little bit of attack if they're
all gets paid as a tax in America and
people do other things right they they
have done supply lines but it's a twenty
trillion dollar economy so that that is
a negative
the real negative isn't that it's
confidence consistency if people start
reducing investment people start moving
the supply chains around that we have
seen already moves the markets a little
bit and so and the fear that the
skirmish may become a war so we we
really don't think it's a great way to
go bad it could easily offset some of
the benefits they've seen from
regulatory reform and tax reform
I won't you talking about regulate for
me your Marion Lake said be something
fabulous CFO that we haven't really seen
genuine regulatory that would make her
happy but there's been so much it's been
change of attitude no yeah so I think if
you when I travel around CEOs of other
industries logistics steel manufacturing
pipeline they've all seen it have we
seen actual changes in regulation for us
not really they have a long list of
things they want to do
there has been regulatory change for the
smaller banks which we totally support
to make a little bit easier for them
reduce to burn them but it doesn't
didn't have any to do for the bigger
banks I think I mean in the public's you
know we're not asking for throwing out
dodd-frank we're simply people
look at calibrating getting rid of
duplication looking at things that hurt
the mortgage markets or at this kind of
market so you could enhance growth and
do it safely no one's looking at you
know going back to the good old days
just recalibrating remember there were
2,000 rules it was like 1 or 2 was a lot
and they were done in haste and people
show his rash and look at cost-benefit
you know what makes sense what doesn't
all keeping the system safer remember
growth stronger economy it also makes
the financial system safer now you just
mentioned no rate potholes we've got a
Fed meeting that's coming up this week
the spread that you would get to intend
to use the typical logic that people say
means that you can't make as much money
and if we can't lend as much so I'm
going to say that no potholes the
households in good shape people going
back to work
fight customers sailors are fine
companies of flage tax reform is still a
benefit we don't have the extreme
leverage we had and Oh a and and all the
lending has been pretty good prime good
good lending so it's not been billing
but absolutely there's friction out
there there's always friction you open
up a newspaper any week of any month
there's tons of friction and it's
mounting brexit QE Turkey Argentina oh
and we don't know the full effect of
those things so yeah we keep our eye on
that but it may not derail the economy
you're gonna see separate the two I keep
thinking these are all things that
should play to your fortress balance
sheet strength we've not seen
we got European banks that are really
really on the run so to speak why
doesn't JP Morgan Mickey
crater presents given the weakness the
rest of the world well we do we're in
every country and we're steady growing
and we do country by country anymore
bankers systems people and all the
support risk legal credit compliance so
our share in Europe is gone up
considerably
and and we're just doing for adding
people and adding branches and you know
the basic good old three yards and a
cloud of dust well okay when I hear
three RS I think you should get a higher
price dirties vulnerable for Evans sake
you're selling it 12 times
next years we've been at this game for a
long time if for your growth financial
with money that's made every single day
you open the door
why aren't you valued like it took the
blessing P company that's a question
you're gonna have to answer your banks
are under still under political
regulatory constraints and all of that
we just went through the crisis I think
a lot of
people's investors buy always a little
worried but you're right whirring very
good returns in capital we're growing
you know whenever when a cycle hits
obviously it could affect the bank but
we will manage right through that cycle
just like we did it right through the
last one okay when I think about that I
think that you must be in there buying
stock every day for the company you've
chosen a path of buying back stock
shrieky but I still how many shares you
have for the last ten years your share
count is not going down enough when will
you start getting back to level that
where you really are not where you're
sopping up the door supply I don't
remember the exact number but our share
count down like 15 percent yeah but
we're doing three six versus ten years
ago three five and yes yeah well there's
some have been issued over time but
since I've been there it's been coming
down so but if you want to look at
something I would prefer to spend that
money not buying back stock doing this
so growing our business is far better
for the economy right now we don't have
a lot of choices but over time I really
would prefer not to buy back stock you
know companies to do it would make sense
I also don't buy this argument that it's
bad buying back stock is simply giving
it back to you an investor who then
redeploys to a better use its
redeployment of capital that should be
redeployed if a company can't use it but
my my druthers always to grow our
business which we're now doing okay 500
branches we're now in all major cities
for investment banking middle market
banking et cetera
we've been growing overseas but think
about any bankers and people and stuff
like that so that is my prep p2pu invest
no building products and services so
you're gonna see a lot more for that
coming the next 12 months when I think
about this and I'm very proud of what
you're doing and then my home city but I
do say okay well Apple of pure
capitalist is you know this Jamie we're
shareholders we should get that money I
there's no real instant payoff here
within two three years it's gonna take a
long time no it's not true
I mean first of all accounting you have
to be careful about but when we build a
branch okay and we put a mean I don't
know we want to give the numbers
publicly we put capital in the branch
but five years later that branch could
could be earning contributing to profit
a million dollars a year so you know the
the timetable that new cities it's a
little more complicated than we open a
branch the city we're in but again we
already serve 60 million households we
weren't to serve 70 million we want to
bring them to all the products and
service we have so there there is a
financial payoff it just it is not
overnight but I don't worry about that
I just explained to people like you that
that's okay the NPV is very good and it
could be negative the first year you
know maybe break down by the third year
and then a plus apples a spark or
depositors of JPMorgan we're not getting
the rate that the two year when are you
gonna start paying your CD and your
deposit more when rates came down the
came down like this as race came down to
zero banks didn't do it so embrace
started going up they didn't pass it on
I think now you see asleep elope other
options money market funds etc but I
think now as rates go up the next 25 the
next 25 there's you'll see what we
called beta you know how much will be
passed on it'll go up and up and up well
is that gonna straight profitability not
I'd be worried not not really because
it's we're getting or gaining deposits
and the spread that you're maintaining
between your cost of funds and your pain
would be about the same Jamie you're
talking about the polity just like the
politicians did in nineteen sixty four
you talk about a war on poverty that
business seems to be doing a better job
you mentioned it in the big settlements
from say 2013 when attorney associate
attorney general Tony West was kind of
after the bank that was you be on the
defensive you're playing the offense
have been trying to change poverty in
this country do you feel that you can do
it better in the government no I think I
feel yeah I think government and
business have to do it together and it
works at a local level we see it in
Detroit we see it in New Orleans we see
in Chicago we see in LA you see in
Philadelphia with great ideas and most
of the things you talk about affordable
housing skills commercial development
Audra that's not democrat a republican
but i think business and government
together can do it business you can't do
without business and business can't do
without government you know government
obviously is gonna play a role in both
the terms of regulation and licensing
and stuff like that and while America is
the most prosperous nation the planet we
really have to focus on these issues
about income inequality infrastructure
opioid crisis lack of education Zinna
state schools end up in good jobs Jamie
yeah you know what you sound like when
you say these things you sound like a
politician I'm a patriot
okay but if you're a patriot so was
generalizing now we didn't know whether
there's democrat or republican but he
ran for president cuz he was a patreon
world war two well I'm a banker
I'm not running I just I think it's very
important that we have a good policy and
that we should focus on good policy and
all the
and you know as you know I don't mind
speaking about good policy analyze it
and participate in a way that JPMorgan
can so if you're in other areas or other
couples will do a better job than we
camp they're far more knowledgeable but
in these kind of areas we can really
help communities are good business
skills ever really transferable to
government though I think some are yeah
I mean administration management
leadership organization but that doesn't
mean a CEO will translate to a good
politicians you know politicians have a
whole set of different skills and you
know relating to people and
understanding empathy and so but it
doesn't mean I would never say never
that people can or can't some have done
it most have no say never say never
again it brings me back to the dial I
would never say never for someone else I
would not say a CEO cannot be a good
president do you think it's too soon and
President Trump was a CEO so you just
met mere American teacher in
Philadelphia that's something that would
not I don't say frowned upon but
wouldn't be believable ten years ago
when bankers were considered to be
antithetical to democracy even because
of President Obama what has it changed
enough that now you're welcoming
communities that were solid Democratic
areas that Democrat areas that I think
really abhorred Bank it's nice to be
welcomed but but just so you know we
never stop seeing mayors governors
presidents prime ministers Senate even
though even people who didn't like us
because we always said it isn't about
they like it are we doing a good job or
the legitimate complaints we should
handle what should we do to make it
better for people and so we never
stopped doing it but it's nice that's
done you know when people do like you
okay I want to speak about the country
you have been on record saying we know
greatest military greatest educational
system is there the best educated the
best and the worst okay well we're
failing inner-city school kids half them
don't graduate like in the poor
neighborhoods and a lot of kids aren't
getting the skills they need to have a
job and so that is a feeling we should
be ring ringing an alarm bell about that
but we don't and I don't know why well
why don't what can you do beyond what
you already did what we're doing a
tremendous amount in skill so what we do
in skills we go to local schools like we
now working the government in New York
to train if my wife did this by the way
to train kids to be tellers $36,000 a
year twelve thousand medical and pension
benefits the kids
like the jobs and that's the first rung
then they can move up they could become
a banker and live in a lot of our branch
manager we're tellers and a lot of the
regional managers would tell us so we
could do it for ourselves but we also
help schools locally well it's a high
school
well it's apprenticeships whether it's a
community college with money but it's
not just us it's all businesses need
jobs locally they need special training
so it really has to be done logo should
be a national toy 1.5 trillion dollars
in student loans 23% default list you're
supposed to be 40 percent by 2023
I know Marian Lake said look that's not
really an issue for a bank but how about
for a country it's a huge issue you know
we that we've lent the it's all
government lending by the way you should
and bad lending is bad weather was the
mortgages you make or businesses one of
the things you have to do is have
discipline around capital so you get a
return Bridget to nowhere are bad
schools that don't work are bad lending
to money people cap here is a it's a
mistake so that student Lenny was a
tremendous amount that's been done in
the last seven years the folks having a
hard time paying it back it's all owned
by the government so it's the taxpayers
gonna lose whatever hundreds of billions
of dollars but it is not good because
what we're seeing today is that in other
lending so mortgages these kids are
having a hard time getting mortgage
credit card they having a hard time
getting a credit card so it is affecting
the economy it's not like the mortgage
crisis it's a trillion three or three
and four so it's not I wouldn't call
that Mitchell it's just unfortunate
unfortunate okay let's go back to
international for a second you talked
about the idea the tower so far they you
know you've got a skirmish but at what
point would it be a war and at what
point should we be worried that it's
really going overboard you know I I
worry about it and I just don't know you
know I mean I think China has been very
predictable in retaliation and I think
the market kind of expected a
tit-for-tat retaliation I think they're
kind of expecting NAFTA take to get done
it could get worse from here and I just
I really don't know what I hope it does
I hope that they sit down and rational
conversations and we have a both NAFTA
which we should do cuz Canada and Mexico
good neighbors of ours I'm going down in
Mexico later this week and with China
and I don't know what the conversations
are behind closed doors anymore so I I
really don't know if I urge I think we
should try to get well again the
president raised very very very good
issues we're only talking about the
Rosberg did his conclusion I hope their
process works I just think it's kind of
a riskier way of the president said the
problem with banker jamie dimon running
for president he doesn't have the app
tutor the smarts and is a poor public
speaker nervous mess that doesn't sound
like cooperation how did you patch that
up I mean I'm sure in the last 10 days
you patched this I I have not spoken to
President
yeah then and and but my talk in my I
made a mistake I should have yeah laughs
Yap like that in which some of you were
mentioned on TV but I do want to focus
on policy so my view is let's just focus
on policy I shouldn't be taking no shots
and having jokes at anyone's expense
well would you think would you put this
in the case of say the London whale
where you said it was the stupidest
thing that wants us we used the
stupidest most embarrassing situation
ever been part of it's just right up
there with the line in web no no I've
said a lot of stupid things in my life
the London whale we bought some real
money things you're saying are
common-sense things that we've not heard
from bankers we've heard from bankers be
on the defensive for a decade you really
are saying here's how public-private
partnership make not make these
neighborhoods better get better since
much better schools and we change our
country you change it city by city
you're trying but again you have a lot
of guests on TV you ask most of them
what they're doing a lot of these
companies are doing stuff just like this
there's not just JP Morgan but all these
companies are part of the BRT but we
actually put out a booklet of the work
skills everyone's doing something and
everyone's doing a lot in diversities
other things were falling behind other
countries we've seen I think in total
we're slipping
I think the bad policy is why we've
grown to two percent over the last ten
years and not more and that two percent
and the American publisher no 20 percent
growth in 10 years is half what it
should have been it's China that it
passes I doubt it okay we this country
is blessed with things that are just way
beyond those schools and your reverse
the good part the university is land
water energy the Atlantic Pacific are
the best businesses innovation but we
had to sit at series of problems we
fixed one an uncompetitive tax system
for business I that was a bad idea we
have to fix immigration inner-city
schools
opioids we have to get down as a chance
to have a job we got to get people back
to the work skills we should double the
Earned Income Tax Credit and what does
everyone have one to point out is reason
and we should have a negative income tax
of some sort make make jobs that people
have because jobs give dignity jobs have
better social outcomes but they need to
be a living wage so I agree with that
concept when I hear from folks and the
Earned Income Tax Credit does that and
we need to double we should double it
and you have to pay more so be it
Satya Nadella the CEO of Microsoft
you've brought this group together
Shantanu Narayan from Adobe bill
McDermott from sa P I've never seen
anything quite like this frankly and
I've been doing this on air and and in
print for a while
more than a trillion dollars worth of
market cap represented by you three
gentlemen sitting here and you're
announcing the open data initiative in
the cloud Satya
why is this so important you know the
insight that all three of us had based
on the work we're doing with many
customers you know we talked about
coca-cola Unilever Walmart today as
customers were all excited about this
open data initiative it's their real
insight that led us to do this which is
how do we work to put them in control of
their own customer data because that's
the real currency any brand out there
cares deeply about the continuous
improvement of their own customer data
as understanding and the three parts
coming together is going to be central
to them feeling in control of their own
customer data and the idea being
Microsoft with Azure Dynamics you've got
a certain set of customer data Adobe
you've got the experience cloud you've
got lots of marketing data different
types of data about the customer and how
companies are trying to reach out to the
customer s ap you've got lots of data -
a lot of it having to do with what's
going on inside the company that's
affecting customers outside as well so
what our customer is going to be able to
do and maybe bill I'll toss this one to
you that they couldn't do before once
you figure out this open data thing and
they're able to read data across all of
your platforms Jon there isn't a CEO in
the world that does not want to have a
single view of their customer and they
have to connect their demand change
to the supply chain and do so in
real-time so if you think about the
consumer whose social mobile they're
geospatial they're always on the fly
they're gonna shop different companies
in all channels direct-to-consumer
wholesale retail and you have to make
sure that connection point with that
consumer is really intimate so these
companies need to be intelligent
enterprises because more and more a I
and predictive analytics is going to
rule and how you engage with that
customer but ultimately what you have to
do is fulfill so now you're gonna see
the demand and the supply chain
completely integrated and that data will
be shared evenly among our companies so
the customer is the major benefactor of
the open data initiative we announced
today and Shantanu you just announced
that Adobe that you're buying Marketo
for I think it was four point seven five
billion I'll try to ask you about that a
few days before you weren't ready to
talk to me about it but you can talk
about it now how does that move an
experienced cloud and what you're trying
to build there fit into this broader
story well I think all three of us
shared this vision of how do we enable
enterprises to put customers at the
front of the digital journey and Satya
and Bill said getting behavioral data
getting transactional data and getting
customer engagement to be the front and
center I think is the most important
thing that enterprises can do so that
digital is actually a tailwind rather
than headwind what Marketo does is add
to our offerings in the experience cloud
of being able to create this unified
profile for all customers and the thing
that every customer will tell you today
is that they want an engaging experience
with whoever they're doing business with
whether it's financial services whether
it's automotive whether it's retail and
Adobe focused a lot more on b2c
customers but the same requirements that
were true for b2c customers are now true
for b2b customers and that's what
Marketo provides it's actually a bunch
of senior execs built ASAP that are now
you know running market also
is this a closed party are Amazon Google
Salesforce welcome to this initiative
how does it work from here now that you
guys are in today they're very clear but
the name itself should sort of tell
everything it's an open data initiative
you guys some technology name things all
kinds of stuff spirit here is not about
us it is about really unlocking the data
that is our customers data about their
own customers but I think what is
foundational here is trust in other
words ultimately customers will decide
and compliance with their own customers
trust in them is also going to be very
key because if you think about it one of
them top considerations for anything
around customer data is privacy and
regulation around privacy so the most
important thing here would be for each
vendor to think through how they
participate here and ensure that there
is more trust in the entirety of the
value chain starting with the end
consumer to the brand and to us as
software vendors or you know tech
companies and so I think depending on
the business models I think the real
challenge is going to be for some who
really want to join but their business
model is probably not going to allow
them to join like you think it's gonna
be harder for an Amazon or a Google
you'll have to ask them but I think
overall though what we have all anchored
on is if we can create an architecture
an incentive system that turns the tide
to put customers in control of their own
customer data I think the overall
economy will be better off now so that's
what we are trying to get done John if I
may add to that for a second I mean what
we have already demonstrated by having a
common taxonomy for this customer
journey meaning what meaning how you
define a customer how you define the
demographics how you define the lifetime
value how you define their interests we
have actually agreed across the
companies despite the fact that we have
some overlapping products in that space
I think demonstrates our commitment
to this open data initiative and the
fact that you have customers who are
excited about building on top of the
foundation that we have I think gives us
a lot of confidence that this is the
right thing for enterprises bill how
long do you think this is going to take
take - to actually get the monster date
it's the specs out on this year
initiatives so that other companies can
join people understand what they have to
do with their platforms with their
software to be compliant I think the big
announcement today represents that
Microsoft Adobe NS ap have already begun
this journey so in terms of others
wanting to join the journey we're happy
to share the reference architecture
around the ODI initiative I do think the
big story here though is trust and I
think Satya and Shantanu both said it
very well think about Trust is the
ultimate human currency think about
customer experience is the most
important priority think about the power
of getting the people inside these
companies to focus clearly on what's
going on outside of these companies this
idea of the net present value of a more
satisfied and loyal customer plus making
the employees more inspired and more
loyal is probably the biggest value
driver that we can ever come up with let
me think about this a 5% improvement in
retention is equivalent to a 95 percent
improvement in profit for most companies
so if we can connect that data to their
consumers and give them an unimaginably
good experience what is that going to do
for revenues and profits for all the
companies that we care for big big
breakthrough ok we're talking about
flexibility we're talking about
efficiency and the backdrop here we've
got a UN General Assembly meeting we've
got something going on with the Deputy
Attorney General in Washington perhaps a
change happening there we've got a trade
war happening between the US and China
and that's arguably not the only one
going on to what extent is politics
having an impact on the demand for
product your ability to project what
what what demand is going to be out in
the marketplace these days or as
business just coming on as usual Oh
the thing at least that we see thanks in
part to the industry we participate in
is digital technology is increasingly
becoming pervasive in all parts of the
world in all sectors of the economy
and so therefore I think it's incumbent
on us as the tech industry to ensure
that these businesses are creating
opportunity in every economy in every
society because if you think about it
the politics is always going to be
associated with what's the well-being of
any region any community in any country
and as long as technology can play a
role in that
ultimate success in creating surplus
that's equitably distributed I think
these short-term bumps will work out but
to me that's what it is what both I
think we have a real opportunity which
we are obviously exercising but we also
have a responsibility to make sure the
technologies benefits a broad spectrum
broad spread and bill sa P a German
company technically how does not being a
us-based company at this time when
there's a lot of trade tension between
the US and Europe between the US and a
lot of different countries in Asia how
is that affecting the way people look at
sa P when they're looking to engage with
technology and build up their business
well obviously we we consider ourselves
a truly global software company I think
that's very important distinction there
is no doubt however that tensions
between for example some Asian countries
and the United States are pretty high
right now and it's probably less so for
a German company if you think about
where headquarters might be located but
in all seriousness I think we're focused
in an all tech leaders are responsible
around wanting things to work out
between countries and technology
companies and right now I think we all
would benefit greatly from you know an
environment where we stay focused on
growth
and to me open countries are prosperous
countries and if you look at the history
of the world any time a country has been
open it's actually equalled more
Commerce more opportunities for
everybody so we abide by that principle
but there's no doubt in the ASEAN
countries in particular I see a newfound
strength in our business model Shantanu
it feels to me like we're entering a new
era in cloud where more M&A more
partnerships and initiatives like this
one how do you look at the market
because it seems for a while big
companies like you guys were holding off
on doing a lot of M&A because things
were expensive but your values gone up
too and it seems like your pace of M&A
has picked up a bit what's your take on
on the market for M&A right now well
first I think you know all three of us
were early adopters of the cloud and
recognized the benefits of more rapid
innovation that we could do on the cloud
of the trust and security that comes
from all of this data being in the cloud
but you know I think we look at it and
say in order to really solve fundamental
customer problems putting the onus on
integration on customers to work with a
number of small companies is just not
going to work and that's where I think
you know what we're trying to do with
ODI is say if leaders in our categories
can come together and make it work
that's going to be extremely
facilitative of companies doing it so I
do think you'll see more consolidation
as a result of IT professionals not
wanting to integrate small systems but
to rely on large companies who are
innovating at a fast pace certainly if
you're the same yeah I mean I think one
of the things that we're really doing is
bringing down the friction and improving
the agility one of the interesting
things that you know Bill mentioned was
say the ASEAN region if you look at
cloud AI and the open data initiative
the idea that even a small business in
Indonesia can now use sa P Adobe and
Microsoft to become that much more
fishing is the real opportunity so
you're bringing down that barrier to be
able to use the latest and greatest
technology for every business in every
part of the world by really working
together ah it's easy to get started
it's easy to take data from one place to
the other easy to use AI to reason over
it to create new experiences and it's
amazing it's in some sense we are
commoditizing the technology as an input
for driving business ok and on ma you
expect to see an increased pace I think
ma first of all if you look at all of
our R&D budgets I think most people
obviously gravitate towards M&A but the
organic investments that each of us are
making is by far the largest of course
we are going to complement that
supplement that with M&A where it makes
sense but I think the real thing that
you're seeing is growth in across all
our businesses which is driven by
fundamentally organic growth well it's
an extraordinary moment having the three
of you sitting here talking about this
open data initiative Satya Nadella
thanks for bringing it all together
Shantanu narayan from Adobe bill
McDermott frame/s ap thank you skies in
New York back to you the market has been
by virtue of the fact that we've had
this record-setting run the Dow joins
the the record-setting move last week
the market has been able to ignore
almost everything that comes out of
Washington so how do you put this into
the calculus today for investors
I think today's event in itself probably
will not will not play a big role I
think the biggest risk out of Washington
is based between escalation and
potential for tariff implementation
we've seen some already and we need to
see what happens as far as 2019 goes
fundamentals have been exceptionally
strong when you look at equities you've
seen an extremely healthy buyback trade
also that continues to support the
market along with valuations that are by
no means stretched so we think you have
a good backdrop we just named basically
need to see what happens with tariffs
because those are a risk to 2019 numbers
market was already going to be down
today as a result of these reports that
China cancelled the meeting over over
trade so we took that leg lower as I
said on the Rosenstein headlines but
it's it's been remarkable though that
the market hasn't really cared much
about trade either for more than a few
hours or a day I'm
when you look at when you look at
earnings earnings so far have not really
been there hasn't been any material
impact in terms of bottom line prints
and earnings so far companies are
starting to talk more and more about
risk around terrorists but like again
not no impact on earnings thus far I
think that's a risk that we're basically
paying close attention to for 2019 and
that's where I think you're seeing a
market it has been by virtue of the fact
that we've had this record-setting run
the Dow joins the the record-setting
move last week the market has been able
to ignore almost everything that comes
out of Washington so how do you put this
into the calculus today for investors
I think today's event in itself probably
will not will not play a big role I
think the biggest risk out of Washington
is basically trade escalation and
potential for tariff implementation
we've seen some already and we need to
see what happens as far as 2019 goes
from the metals have been exceptionally
strong when you look at equities you've
seen an extremely healthy buyback trade
also that continues to support the
market along with valuations that are by
no means stretched so we think you have
a good backdrop we just need basically
need to see what happens with tariffs
because those are a risk to 2019 numbers
market was already going to be down
today as a result of these reports that
China cancelled the meeting over over
trade so we took that leg lower as I
said on the Rosenstein headlines but
it's it's been remarkable though that
the market hasn't really cared much
about trade either for more than a few
hours or a day I mean when you look at
when you look at earnings earnings so
far have not really been there hasn't
been any material impact in terms of
bottom line prints and earnings so far
companies are starting to talk more and
more about risk around tariffs but like
again not no impact on earnings thus far
I think that's a risk that we're
basically paying close attention to for
2019 and that's where I think you're
seeing a market has been fairly fairly
resilient so far we you're not working
into your models trying to factor in
what happens in the midterms we're only
six weeks out it's very hard I mean look
there is phase one has been implemented
on tariffs part of phase 2 has been
implemented discussion about phase 3
clearly phase 3 goes through numbers for
2019 we think will come down at least by
five bucks in terms of for EPS if
possibly up to ten but again it's very
hard to distinction between what's
reality and what's basically noise yeah
well we're gonna get the midterm
elections that that's not noise I mean
it's the reality of what's going to
happen the outcome is is far unknown at
this point Lindsey so how do you factor
all in yeah it's definitely hard to
factor in usually you see volatility
increased significantly in the third
quarter going into midterm elections are
usually up 34% we haven't seen that this
year looking a lot of the different
polls that are out there it seems like
the Democrats are gonna take over the
house which would just result in more
gridlock within Congress which doesn't
bode well for growth and the market
going forward I don't know what could be
negative about gridlock in the in the
White House or in in Washington what
could they do we've got the tax plan
there right yeah I've got the economy
that's going you know on all cylinders
so why would gridlock be negative you
know what I misstated I don't mean that
it will be negative what I really mean
is that you're not going to see any
growth policies really be pushed through
there's just gonna be infighting not a
lot is going to get done and you're
right the market usually typically does
well when there is a gridlock in the
market I just don't expect increase
amounts of there is the same gridlock is
good right yeah right and and I and I
think that the way that Congress is is
positioned now and the way that it's
anticipated the election will come out
which is the house with the Democrats
and the Senate with the Republicans that
could change but even if that happens
we've got the growth policies in effect
we've got regulations that have been cut
back we've got tax plan going forward so
I don't see what the issue is with that
I think gridlock would be fine in terms
of what happens with Rosen Stein going
forward I don't really see the issues
there either to me maybe this is the
smoking gun that allows Trump to go
after Jeff Sessions and say he worked
for you you should have known this you
should have kept him in check even then
though I think it's a momentary sell in
the market but the market keeps going
I'm with you I'm more concerned about
inflation we're seeing used-car prices
move up while oil is not part of the
core still the impact of higher energy
prices feeds into everything the feed
stock so that's my biggest concern so
the market seems to be taking a 3.10
ten-year roughly
instructor Bravo your year-end targets
3000 we're not all that far away from
that level as we speak at what point do
you start to get a little more bullish
is there a chase for a performance into
into year end do you take some comfort
that these high-growth sectors which
have fueled much of this rally have
taken what appears to be a little bit of
a backseat these value stocks that
should be going up in in what is a very
strong economy are finally even with
tariffs industrial stocks are performing
so well so we've had this price target
out for now almost a year and we've had
to defend it on many different occasions
earlier this year when there was a lot
of volatility market continues to be
quite resilient I think actually the
market probably would have been above
3000 already if it wasn't for trade and
trade escalation and an old Terra
discussion so for us again we're really
looking at 2019 right now if you look at
consensus it's implying about 10 percent
growth we think 11 percent is something
that's achievable but again that's very
much of contingent upon what happens
with tariffs if we think that thing
things start to converge you get some
form of resolution I would say the
market probably can move a lockstep with
earnings for next year maybe five to ten
percent but if Terrance getting
implemented then I think we need to
perhaps take a pause tariffs bring the
inflation and Steve's correct to
identify that I think what you're seeing
right now in the u.s. 10 years that
you're gonna see a move towards three
and a quarter percent I also think when
you look at energy right now I think the
street is under invested as it relates
to energy oil prices you've got Brent
above $80 right now the trend for Brent
crude oil for the remainder of the year
is gonna be higher and higher know
myself personally I'm adding to my
energy exposure I think the trend is
sent there but I think there's a little
bit for everyone on a day like today so
yes you have some of the value names you
you close the gap between growth and
value over the last couple of weeks and
if you look at the market equal weight
versus cap-weighted okay equal weight is
slightly outperforming but on a day like
today there's a little bit for everyone
so you seen technology names come back a
little bit today they're outperforming
some of these value oriented in text
still on pace for its worst month since
its March it is but but but the question
is do you exhaust the the move that
we've seen without tech coming back it's
happened before listen it's happened
before again so you might have in July
and August borrowed a little bit from
September I don't think that changes the
overall trend for
technology itself Friday you get this
communication services sector so talking
to a lot of hedge fund managers this
weekend they're gonna lose Google
they're going to lose Facebook they're
gonna lose
TripAdvisor they're gonna Baba's gonna
go into the consumer discretionary now
much much further investment how much
further Joss can the market go up from
here without tech joining Joey we've
we've proved that it's not necessary
this this quarter
healthcare is up almost 12% and
industrials were up 11% and we made new
record highs in the Dow last week we
made a new record high in the SP on
several occasions
so you actually proved it already that
you can have the best leading sector on
a three-year basis take a pause and
other sectors provided the earnings
backdrop is strong and the market itself
is stable can take the lead and can push
the index the new hi look listen
retailers at multi-year highs some of
them all-time highs
who would have thought that was possible
going back to as recently as December
January so yeah it would be great if
Amazon wasn't nine percent off a tie and
Netflix was making new high every day
and Apple was making new high-end you
expect what I you expect a rebound I'm
making the point that it's okay if it's
not personally I think the fattest pitch
in the entire stock market right now is
alphabet technically the set up here I
think if you get this thing probably 20
25 points higher we're really nobody is
down in this stock significantly
outperforming Facebook in the midst of
this large cap tech drawdown alphabet is
the name but but put that one idea aside
the bigger picture idea and I think this
was alluded to earlier actually gridlock
would be phenomenal the American public
told the Gallup poll recently that they
prefer it including Republicans they
want to check on this president at this
point even if they're Republicans it's
number one number two if you actually
look going back to 1950 the stock market
does the the third best of any outcome
when you have a Republican in the White
House and one house of Congress
controlled by Democrats it's not the
best possible scenario but it's the
third no that's not negative but that's
why we ask the questions to our experts
about the political calculus if
Rosenstein is actually fired
what the outcome could be if that could
tilt the outcome at all-america schools
or dramatically midterms that's a really
good question if you were if you would
ask me in December what's the biggest
risk to the stock market I would not
have said recession or earnings or any
of the oil or any of that stuff the
dollar I would have said an exogenous
shock caused by something in Washington
where we get a Saturday night Saturday
night mass massacre and everyone loses
confidence in the US stock market at
once
I no longer believe that's the case
because I think the market now expects
some version of impeachment proceedings
this fall not saying it'll be successful
I'm not saying Trump is in trouble I'm
just saying the market now expects this
this is the base case that we are going
to have a vicious political no maybe
maybe Jimmy the exogenous shock is the
Democrats taking both houses and I mean
at some point when you got wood shop
tomorrow I think that would be the shock
six weeks out let's not forget it's not
that way where all of those questions
are gonna be asked why if because it's
very unexpected I mean and I'm sure you
do your polls as well everybody's
expecting a democratic house and a
Senate Republican or choosing a
Republican Senate look if they go
through impeachment in that in that
scenario you've got to stop in the
Senate if it's Republican it goes
nowhere if it's Democratic then you
actually have to think about the
investigations go on though let me
you're good because the big question
here is what has the market priced in at
least that's the big question to me
we've got a divergence here that's
telling us the market is pricing in a
lot of bad things what's that divergence
you've got killer earnings all right the
last two Kearney quarters earnings have
just blown the cover off the ball and
expectations still go higher you
mentioned that in terms of five to ten
percent growth this late in the cycle
five to ten percent growth year over
year is incredible but the multiple has
contracted two turns since the beginning
of the year that is the markets way of
saying don't know if it's tariffs don't
know if it's impeachment don't know if
it's in place you'd think the marketing
that all in there and what because they
yelled on the - you think the market has
priced in the worst of tariffs yes no
you think the market has price because
you're disagreeing so either I think far
wait let me get the punchline
okay whatever whether it's priced in all
the tariffs are not Joe okay it's priced
in bad news that's why we're - turns out
no what has he you're never gonna finish
dude the Mobile's contracted because
rates have risen slowly and shortly but
they had they were the yield on the -
e-excuse me the yield on a two-year the
other than ten year they've risen and as
a result yeah you should not have an
expanding stock market multiple you have
great earnings tempered by the fact that
money is not as cheap as it was okay so
it's not like a rocket science wait a
second it's never one thing so don't say
that it's just mostly one and don't no
it's not it's not and by the way we've
got earnings season coming up there's
been no pre announcements okay this
looks like pre announcer feel free to
make your points but let's make them go
hearing you right then I'll just
summarize look you're setting up for
another good earnings season third in a
row what's gonna meet are we gonna have
expectations on earnings continue to
rise and multiples contract I don't
think so
it's more likely at this stage in the
cycle that the multiple starts to pick
up but we have that much of a
disagreement on the desk as to whether
tariffs are fully priced they're not
president the at this point last week I
was talking about that there was going
to be a trilateral agreement between
Mexico Canada and the US and that's why
the market was rally we we have not got
that so far and I think as it relates to
what's going on with the Chinese further
implementation of these tariffs raises
prices that's a problem for the US
consumer that's a problem for US
corporations and it is an inflationary
impact for the market economy clearly
the market doesn't think that it's going
to be that punitive to earning 100 this
point absolutely I said that I disagree
I think what is priced in right now is a
favorable outcome at some point can I
can I just come back to his point
pre-announcement see I'll disagree facts
I'd put out a piece on it last week
saying that it's been the highest and
the percentage of negative pre
announcements since the first quarter of
2016 but you can't really have it both
ways you can't say that so much is
priced into the market yet strong
earnings which everybody's been talking
about and uniformly agrees
are going to occur this quarter isn't
priced in well that's the point
expectations are extremely high going
into the third quarter because we've had
such great numbers out of the first and
second quarter your the expectations are
high going into the third quarter you
just saw the CEO Business Roundtable
confidence come out today CEOs are
worried about tariffs you heard ups talk
about it they said it only impacted
about 10 percent of their revenues so
far micron mentioned it we're going to
hear this word on conference calls
significantly we don't even need to wait
to the conference right right Macy's
Office Depot I could go down the list
argue all the red Smith and I grew that
and so I think what you have two pairs
look CEOs who do one of two things
they're not going to say hey Trump's
doing the wrong thing right they'll
couch it and say hey we're more cautious
going forward because of the cost inputs
going higher to your point we had the
last quarter in the quarter before that
great earnings without the tariff issues
and what the markets do after the
quarterly announcements what they did
what you did have a point and then I
want to profit are fishes in there last
time and also you got to use the numbers
here 200 billion 10 percent tariffs 20
billion dollars a year on the S&P 500 I
don't think it's going to show up I
understand the concern about inflation
so I'm not saying it's not there I'm
saying it's small and that's in the
market that's what I'm saying question
whether the worst of the tariffs where
the marker listen but you suggested yes
I did
I'm standing by it you're halfway
through what the maximum possible
tariffs now if we don't play if you get
25 percent on another you throw in
another 267 okay you're you're correct
that I'm assuming rationality you've got
the rest against you now you've got the
referee on you tell if we continue to
play a game of I'll see your 200 billion
and raise you another 50 billion that's
going to be a problem for the market in
2000 tariffs are off go no I think I
think Terrans are partially priced in I
don't think entirely I think if you do
go into phase 3 I mean first of all I
think if they implement 25% on phase 2
that in itself will likely bring down
some of the numbers in 19 which I don't
think it's fully priced in I do think
partially it is
I think multiple is a function of rates
at fully agree I do think that trade
however is also something that's
limiting the multi
from rereading maybe not by 2x but
regrading by 1x gridlock just another
thing I just want to mention real
quickly I do fully agree gridlock I
think is a positive because out of DC
last year you had a pro-growth agenda
this year you have an anti growth so you
get a gridlock I think the market likes
that can I ask you this market has been
driven by buybacks
if the CEOs get a whiff of a slowdown in
growth do you think you'll continue to
see the aggressive nature of buybacks
that we've seen the last couple more you
need to see it even more so if that's
what they need to grow earnings they
would double down on by that there's no
indication that they are seeing this
slow hold on we had Jamie Dimon the the
JPMorgan CEO on just a few moments ago
with our own Jim Cramer it's a CNBC
exclusive interview in Philadelphia
here's what he said about the state of
the economy America the economy is quite
strong and and it's growing at 3% it has
been now for a couple of quarters and
looks like that way there are no great
potholes so let me very well continue no
indication from Jamie Dimon sees a whole
lot of stuff in the things that he looks
at that we're gonna get that slowdown
that you say well if we get a slowdown
companies maybe gonna buy a little less
of their stock back I think look at the
big risk is tariffs and the impact on
margins I think when you look at the
economy you're basically looking
employment which is a very strong job at
strong you're finally seeing some wage
inflation which is basically helping the
consumers and actually there's one thing
that if you look at q2 guy and as most
companies we're actually talking about
the consumer strength right so again I
don't think that the earnings picture is
I I don't think it's that clear that you
know expect expectations have risen but
I don't think they're extreme terraces
are negative but on the other side I
think you have in economies what is the
house view on what's the house view on
the ten-year and quite and and just just
the premium and how small it's gotten
and and what do you think really would
impact stock prices if it's not you know
if we're not really gonna worry about
the curve then what would we worry about
I'm glad you asked that question because
my next question to you was going to be
we've gone you know 22 minutes here and
we talked about all of these potential
risks inflation I get it but the the
word the Fed hasn't even been mentioned
yet they're gonna be front and center
this week how much of a wild card is
that and it plays right into Josh's
yes so look that the Fed hiking rates I
think is a gradual negative it is eating
into Marge's slowly but we estimated
margins for instance when you look at
earnings margins won't get impacted
entirely until Fed hikes for another at
least fifty two hundred bits if you look
at interest expense and the debt levels
I think the multiple is a function of
yields again if yields move higher say
north of three and a half three and
three-quarters I do think this becomes
an issue but let's first get there again
our house view I would say probably is
more in line with the three and a
quarter three and a half now pension
funds US pension funds corporate pension
funds government pension funds are just
insatiable buyers of ten year Treasury
they're getting way heavy into private
equity and so to counter that lack of
liquidity
it's a barbell on the other side they're
going nuts on on Troy which I think is
the reason for this narrowing spread and
not economic concern would you agree
with that would agree yes I have many
many PM's basically tell me asset
alligators tell me 10-year yield at
three percent that's a buying
opportunity for like the whole world yes
huge pools of because when you look at
what's happening abroad with Germany
Japan it's so where do you think so the
question I asked people that nobody
knows the answer to because we're in sea
rescue for environment is where do you
see restrictive policy now it used to be
over five percent clearly that could be
there anymore no where is it so I would
say probably three and three-quarters
four percent anything above that I think
becomes restrictive unless we have new
reasons coming out suggesting growth
will accelerate but you don't have your
your you know your sector
waiting's are what would you recommend
right now is the top three places to be
in the market we've been pushing the
last several months a barbell portfolio
I'm sort of using the same same same
term here basically we continue to like
tech because we do think that late cycle
you won't have exposure to growth people
pay a premium for gross car city but at
the same time given how extreme
dislocation levels have become in the
market we're saying don't be naked on
the value side have value anchors we
like financials we like industrials we
like energy but your I guess the reason
I asked you the question is by virtue of
the fact you have those sectors tech
financials industrials energy growth
cyclical you can't be worried about all
that
no we're not we think that the business
suckled economic cycle is intact not
just in the US but globally again I keep
mentioning tariffs and trade escalation
is my biggest worry for 2019 in terms of
do we move sideways or do we potentially
move higher by 10 percent when you look
at the emerging markets relative to
where they are versus the US is that a
great opportunity on a longer-term basis
we do think so we do think that emerging
markets increasingly becoming a very
attractive opportunity risk reward is
quite attractive positioning is very
negative sentiment is very negative I'm
with you on this China I mean is
basically in a recession territory when
you look at the gap between US and in
China we think look there's there's a
lot of interesting buying opportunities
it's very difficult coming up with the
catalyst and timing the catalyst but
again a six-month a 12-month view we
think am definitely I think the risk
though on that trade well you get more
reward but so much more has to go right
for you to get the reward now I disagree
we actually did a lot of work on this
recently we had some questions from
clients it turns out when you buy
emerging markets as Anand as a sector as
an asset class after 20% declines the
CNBC exclusive hey again Jeff thank you
so much Karl yep we're here with Jamie
Dimon Jamie this is quite a commitment
to an area that frankly has gone from
bank to unbanked City just pulled out
over the course the last five years 50
million dollars and network 330 banks
have closed in the last 10 years why why
not yeah well you know with regulatory
reform and tax reform where you now says
20 billion dollar thing going to many
cities obviously Philadelphia is the
seventh largest mark in the United
States that's not including their
biggest suburb called New York and you
know we and we like to be part of a
community we're already here in
investment banking commercial banking
and private banking retail is a gap so
we're gonna open 50 branches 20 percent
will be in LMI neighborhoods
neighborhoods like this and we've come
in we bring the full force of JP Morgan
which is philanthropy dollars but to
really help people like entrepreneur
color funds affordable housing units and
and we enjoy it it's good for the
company and over time and we're we
invest the long-run we never pull in and
out of something talk about the
multiplier effect and when you open a
branch people think you know what we
don't need branches anymore everything's
digital yeah but brick the more works
it's amazing so I think people aren't
thinking clearly a million people
visited branches every day the type of
branch is going to change the size the
branch contains again
smaller but more advice so there's a
mortgage loan office in there there's a
small business loan officer there's a
financial adviser but your financial
affairs so that'll change but a million
people even even the average millennial
visits something like three times a
quarter so to me the question of brands
no more forget they'll change but you
still need to serve your client the way
they want to be served not the way I
want to serve them as you know we've
rolled out all these new products too
right like like finding the online only
bank
well maybe mention this because a lot of
people feel that 10 years ago one of the
problems was the education the borrower
the wire or did not know enough about
what to do you said to be someone in
there literally to help and to teach
yeah
well that make a difference versus say
10 years ago yeah I've told the people
here when you go to these LMI
neighborhoods try something special but
we're gonna roll a lot of financial
education tools we have you invest we're
gonna roll out a self advised group and
we haven't decided on pricey yet so that
you could advise and think of that we
already put on the screen you can get
your FICO score and we're going to teach
you ways and you which you can improve
your FICO so that you can reduce cost a
bar and stuff like that we have to do a
better job not just us but the America
educating people in financial matters
from rainy day funds to handling you
know retirement account and so we're
making it special I have to do that now
it's many of things coming out then
hopefully our customers will enjoy let's
talk about the power of business versus
the power of government the government
legendarily got big settlements from
different banks 13 billion dollars from
you yeah Keith Blood says that you paid
a total of 44 billion did that money go
into the community and did that was that
the way to get things done versus the
targeted way you're doing well this
actually ups community I mean that some
of those funds we don't actually know
how they dispersed and I think one day
someone should look at that and that
kind of past
we've moved forward about how we do it
but you but this is how you build a
community small business lending
affordable housing branches that advise
people and we know that that works
cities know this City Philadelphia your
great hometown let's think the city is
doing better and better and better but
parts it or not and so we do make a
special effort in those parts of that
city now there is a sense that lending
nationally is slowed down I'm not
getting that from your bank can you give
us a sense of what's going on in places
that frankly are unbanked and whether
there is a revival that
can actually move the needle field so
one of one important thing these things
work when you do it with civic society
and government okay they don't work
we're at each other so we've seen all
around the world when mayors
not-for-profits businesses work together
you can get people jobs you get them in
train to get them employed and it
actually works and so but in America
America the economy is quite strong and
and it's growing at 3% it has been now
for a couple of quarters and looks like
that way there are no great potholes so
let me very well continue and so lending
it there is a little bit reduction
lending in middle mark we don't exactly
know why large corporations of course
bonds public markets could clients be
too flush I think you know it we do know
there's an effect that through tax
reform and corporations or any money
they need to borrow less it's just hard
to figure it ease it out but that really
means but if you tow look at employment
growth people going back to work it's
pretty good alright now last week you
told CNBC that it's not it don't call it
a trade war call it a trade skirmish
previously you have said that there
could be at times perhaps a slowdown or
at least in the psyche because of the of
any sort of trade war how do you feel I
told her Traci scores twenty billion
dollars of tariffs in and of themselves
are a little bit of attack if they all
gets paid is attacks in America member
people do other things right they they
have done supply lines but it's a twenty
trillion dollar economy so that that is
a negative
the real negative isn't that it's
confidence consistency if people start
reducing investment people start moving
the supply chains around that we have
seen already moves the markets a little
bit and so and the fear that the
skirmish may become a war so we we
really don't think it's a great way to
go bad it could easily offset some of
the benefits they've seen from
regulatory reform and tax reform
I want you talking about right into it
for me yeah Marian Lake said recently a
fabulous CFO that we haven't really seen
genuine regulatory on that would make
her happy but there's been so much it's
been change of attitude note yeah so I
think if you when I travel around CEOs
of other industries logistics steel
manufacturing pipeline they've all seen
it have we seen actual changes in
regulation for us not really they have a
long list of things they want to do
there has been regulatory change for the
smaller banks which we totally support
to make a
a bit easier for them reduce to burn
them but it doesn't didn't have any to
do for the bigger banks I think I mean
in the public's you know we're not
asking for throwing out dodd-frank we're
simply people simply look at calibrating
getting rid of duplication looking at
things that hurt the mortgage markets or
at this kind of market so you could
enhance growth and do it safely no one's
looking at you know going back to good
old days just recalibrating remember
there were 2,000 rules it was like one
or two was a lot and they were done in
haste and people show his rash and look
at cost-benefit you know what makes
sense what doesn't all keeping the
system safer remember growth stronger
economy it also makes the financial
system safer now you just mentioned no
rate potholes we've got a Fed meeting
that's coming up this week they spread
that you would get to intend to use the
you know like the typical logic that
people say means that you can't make as
much money and if we can't lend as much
so I'm going to say they know potholes
the households in good shape people
going back to work fight customers say
those roads are fine companies of flage
tax reform is still a benefit we don't
have the extreme leverage we had an OE
and and all the lending has been pretty
good prime good good lending so it's not
been billing but absolutely there's
friction out there there's always
friction you open up a newspaper any
week of any month there's tons of
friction and it's mounting brexit QE
Turkey Argentina oh and we don't know
the full effect of those things so yeah
we keep our eye on that but it may not
derail the economy you're gonna see
separate the two I keep thinking these
are all things that should play to your
fortress balance sheet strength we have
not seen we got
European banks that are really really on
the run so to speak why isn't JPMorgan
making greater presents given the
weakness the rest of the world well we
do we're in every country and we're
steady growing and we do country by
country anymore bankers systems people
and all the support risk legal credit
compliance so our share in Europe is
gone up considerably and and we're just
doing for adding people and adding
branches and you know the basic good old
three yards and a cloud of dust okay
when I hear stuffs I think you should
get a higher price dirties vulnerable
for Evans sake you're selling it 12
times
next reserves we've been at this game
for a long time if for your growth
financial with money that's made every
single day you open the door why aren't
you
valued like it's at the blossom tea
company that's a question you're gonna
have to answer your banks are under
still under political regulatory
constraints and all that we just went
through the crisis I think a lot of
people's investors buy always a little
worried but you're right worrying very
good returns in capital we're growing
you know whenever when a cycle his
obviously could affect the bank but we
will manage right through that cycle
just like we did it right through the
last one okay when I think about that I
think that you must be in there buying
stock every day for the company you've
chosen a path of buying back stock
shrieky but I still many shares you have
for the last ten years your share count
is not going down enough when will you
start getting back to level that where
you really are not what you're sopping
up the door supply
I don't member the exact number but our
share counts down like fifteen percent
yeah but we're doing six versus ten
years ago three five yes yeah well
there's some one had been issued over
time but since I've been there it's been
coming down so but if you want to look
at something I would prefer to spend
that money not buying back stock doing
this so growing our business is far
better for the economy right now we
don't have a lot of choices but over
time I really would prefer not to buy
back stock you know companies to do it
would make sense I also don't buy this
argument that it's bad buying back stock
is simply giving it back to you an
investor who then redeploys to a better
use its redeployment of capital that
should be redeployed if a company can't
use it but my my druthers always to grow
our business which we're now doing okay
five hundred branches we're now in all
major cities for investment banking
middle market banking et cetera
we've been growing overseas but think
about any bankers and people and stuff
like that so that is my prep p2pu invest
no building products and services so
you're gonna see a lot more than that
coming the next twelve months when I
think about this and I'm very proud of
what you're doing in my home city but I
do say okay well Apple to pure
capitalist is you know this Jamie we're
shareholders we should get that money I
there's no real instant payoff here
within two three years it's gonna take a
long time no it's not true I mean first
of all accounting you have to be careful
about but when we build a branch okay
and we put a million I don't know we
want to give the numbers publicly we put
capital in the branch but five years
later that branch could could be earning
contributing to profit a million dollars
a year so you know the the timetable of
that new cities it's a little more
complicated than we open a branch and
see we're in
but again we already serve 60 million
households we want to serve 70 million
we want to bring them to all the proxy
service we have so there there is a
financial payoff it's just it is not
overnight but I don't worry about that I
just explained to people like you that
that's okay the NPV is very good and
this could be negative the first year
you know maybe breakdowns by the third
year and then a plug or depositors of
JPMorgan we're not getting the rate that
you get on the two year when are you
gonna start paying your CD and your
depositors more when rates came down the
came down like this as race came down to
zero banks didn't do it so I'm race
started going up they didn't pass it on
I think now you just asleep you'll have
other options money market funds etc but
I think now as rates go up the next 25
the next 25 there's you'll see we called
beta you know how much will be passed on
it'll go up and up and up well is that
going to shrink profitability not I'd be
worried not not really because it's
we're getting or gaining deposits and
the spread that you're maintaining
between your cost of funds and your pain
would be about the same Jamie you're
talking about with the polity just like
the politicians did in 1964 you talk
about a war on poverty that business
seems to be doing a better job you
mentioned it in the big settlements from
say 2013 when attorney associate
attorney general Tony West was kind of
after the bank that was you be on the
defensive you're playing the offensive
and trying to change poverty in this
country do you feel that you can do it
better in the government no I think I
feel you I think government and business
have to do it together and it works at a
local level we see it in Detroit we see
it in New Orleans we see in Chicago we
see in LA you see in Philadelphia with
great ideas and most of the things we
talk about affordable housing skills
commercial development abra it's not
Democrat a Republican but I think
business and government together can do
it business you can't do without
business and business can't do without
government you know government obviously
gonna play a role in both in terms of
regulation and licensing and stuff like
that and while America is the most
prosperous nation on the planet we
really have to focus on these issues
about income inequality infrastructure
opioid crisis lack of education Zinna
state schools end up in good jobs Jamie
yeah you know what you sound like when
you say these things you sound like a
politician well I'm a patriot
okay but if you're a patriot so was
General Eisenhower we didn't know where
there's a Democrat Republican buddy ran
for president cuz he was in a tree won
World War two
well I'm a bank you're trying I'm not
running I just I think it's very
important that we have good policy and
that we should focus on good policy and
all the time and you know as you know I
don't mind speaking about good policy
analyze it and participate in a way that
JPMorgan can so if you're in other areas
no other company will do a better job
than we can't they're far more
knowledgeable but in these kind of areas
we can really help communities are good
business skills ever really transferable
to government though hey I think some
are yeah I mean administration
management leadership organization but
it doesn't mean a CEO will translate to
a good politicians you know politicians
have a whole set of different skills and
you know relating to people and
understanding and empathy and so I bet
doesn't mean I would never say never
that people can or can't some have done
it most have say never say never again
it brings me back to the dial I would
never say never for someone else I would
not say a CEO cannot be a good president
it's too soon and president Trump was a
CEO so you just met mere American
teacher in Philadelphia that's something
that would not I don't say frowned upon
but wouldn't be believable ten years ago
when bankers were considered to be
antithetical to democracy even because
of President Obama what has it changed
enough that now you're welcoming
communities that were solid Democratic
areas that Democrat areas that I think
really a poor Bank this it's nice to be
welcomed but but just so you know we
never stop seeing mayors governors
presidents prime ministers Senate even
even people who didn't like us because
we always said it isn't about they like
are we doing a good job or the
legitimate complaints we should handle
what should we do to make it better for
people and so we never stopped doing it
but it's nice that's done you know when
people do like you okay I want to speak
about the country you have been on
record saying we know greatest military
greatest educational system is to know
the best educated the best and the worst
okay well we're failing inner-city
school kids half them don't graduate
like in the poor neighborhoods and a lot
of kids aren't getting the skills they
need to have a job and so that is a
feeling we should be ring ringing an
alarm bell about that but we don't and I
don't know why well why don't what can
you do beyond what you already did what
we're doing a tremendous amount in skill
so what we doing skills we go to local
schools like
we now work in the government in New
York to Train and my wife did this by
the way to train kids to be tellers
$36,000 a year twelve thousand medical
and pension benefits the kids like the
jobs and that's the first rung then they
can move up they can become a banker and
live in a lot of our branch manager
we're tellers and a lot of the regional
managers would tell us so we could do it
for ourselves but we also help schools
locally well it's a high school well as
apprenticeships whether it's a Community
College with money but it's not just us
it's all businesses that need jobs
locally they need special training so it
really has to be done Logue I should be
a national point 1.5 trillion dollars in
student loans twenty-three percent
default last year supposed to be 40
percent by 2023
I know Marion Lake said look that's not
really an issue for a bank but how about
for a country it's a huge issue you know
we that we've lent the Seoul government
lending by the way should and bad
lending is bad but it was the mortgages
you make or businesses one of the things
you have to do is have discipline around
capital so you get a return bridges to
nowhere are bad schools that don't work
are bad Eleni new money people Kappa is
a it's a mistake so that student Lenny
was a tremendous amount that's been done
in the last seven years the folks having
a hard time paying it back it's all
owned by the government so it's the
taxpayers gonna lose whatever
hundreds of billions of dollars but it
is not good because what we're seeing
today is that in other lending so
mortgages these kids are having a hard
time getting mortgage credit car they're
having a hard time getting a credit card
so it is affecting the economy it's not
like the mortgage crisis it's a trillion
three or trillion four so it's not I
wouldn't call seminal it's just
unfortunate okay let's go back to
International for a second you talked
about the idea the tariff so far they
you know you've got a skirmish but at
what point would it be a war and at what
point should we be worried that it's
really going overboard you know I'm I
worry about it and I just don't know you
know I mean I think China has been very
predictable in retaliation and I think
the market kind of expected a
tit-for-tat retaliation I think they're
kind of expecting NAFTA to to get done
it could get worse from here and I just
I really don't know what I hope it does
I hope that they sit down have rational
conversations and we have a both NAFTA
which we should do cuz Canada Mexico
good neighbors of ours I'm going down to
Mexico later this week and with China
and I don't know what the conversations
are
Hynde closed doors anymore so I I really
don't know if I urge I think we should
try to get well again the president
raised very very very good issues we're
only talking about the process both did
his conclusion I hope their process
works I just think it's kind of a
riskier way of the president said the
problem with banker Jamie Dimon running
for president he doesn't have the app
tutor the smarts and there's a poor
public speaker nervous mess that doesn't
sound like cooperation yeah but how did
you patch that up I mean I'm sure in the
last 10 days you patched this I have not
spoken to the president
yeah then and and but my okay my I made
a mistake I shouldn't yell at Yap like
that in which some of you were mentioned
on TV but I do want to focus on policy
so my view is I let's just focus on
policy I shouldn't be taking no shots
and having jokes at anyone's expense you
think would you put this in the case of
say the London whale where you said it
was the stupidest thing that moments and
the stupidest most embarrassing
situation ever been part of it's just
right up there with the line and well no
no I've said a lot of stupid things in
my life but London well we bought some
real money things you're saying are
common-sense things that we've not heard
from bankers we've heard from bankers be
on the defensive for a decade you really
are saying here's how public-private
partnership make not make these
neighborhoods better get better since
much better schools and we change our
country you changes city by city you're
trying but again you have a lot of
guests on TV you ask most of them what
they're doing a lot of these companies
are doing stuff just like this
they're not just JP Morgan but all these
companies are part of the BRT
but we actually put out a booklet of the
work skills everyone's doing something
Minh do a lot of diversity other things
are falling behind other countries we've
seen I think in total we're slipping I
think the bad policy is why we've grown
a 2% over the last ten years and not
more and that 2% and the American parks
you know 20 percent growth in ten years
is half what it should have been it's
China gonna pass this I doubt it okay we
this country is blessed with things that
are just way beyond you know schools and
your birth the good part the university
is land water energy the Atlantic
Pacific are the best businesses
innovation but we had to sit at series
of problems we fix one an uncompetitive
tax system for business that was a bad
idea we have to fix immigration
inner-city schools
opioids you
fellas a chance to have a job we got to
get people back to work skills we should
double the Earned Income Tax Credit and
one time to have one to point out its
reason and we should have a negative
income tax of some sort make make jobs
that people have because jobs give
dignity jobs have better social outcomes
but they need to be a living wage so I
agree with that concept when I hear from
folks and the Earned Income Tax Credit
does that and we need to double we
should double it and you have to pay
more so be it
Satya Nadella the CEO of Microsoft
you've brought this group together
Shantanu Narayan from Adobe bill
McDermott from s AP I've never seen
anything quite like this frankly and
I've been doing this on air and and in
print for a while more than a trillion
dollars worth of market cap represented
by you three gentlemen sitting here and
you're announcing the open data
initiative in the cloud Satya why is
this so important you know the insight
that all three of us had based on the
work we're doing with many customers you
know we talked about coca-cola Unilever
Walmart today as customers we're all
excited about this open data initiative
it's their real insight that led us to
do this which is how do we work to put
them in control of their own customer
data because that's the real currency
any brand out there cares deeply about
the continuous improvement of their own
customer data as understanding and the
three of us coming together is going to
be central to them feeling in control of
their own customer data and the idea
being Microsoft with Azure Dynamics
you've got a certain set of customer
data adobe you've got the experience
cloud you've got lots of marketing data
different types of data about the
customer and how companies are trying to
reach out to the customer s ap you've
got lots of data - a lot of it having to
do with what's going on inside the
company that's affecting customers
outside as well
so what our customer is going to be able
to do and maybe bill I'll toss this one
to you that they couldn't do before once
you figure out this open data thing and
they're able to read data across all of
your platforms John
there isn't a CEO in the world that does
not want to have a single view of their
customer and they have to connect their
demand chain to their supply chain and
do so in real time so if you think about
the consumer who's social mobile they're
geospatial they're always on the fly
they're gonna shop different companies
in all channels direct-to-consumer
wholesale retail and you have to make
sure that connection point with that
consumer is really intimate so these
companies need to be intelligent
enterprises because more and more a I
and predictive analytics is going to
rule and how you engage with that
customer but ultimately what you have to
do is fulfill so now you're gonna see
the demand and the supply chain
completely integrated and that data will
be shared evenly among our companies so
the customer is the major benefactor of
the open data initiative we announced
today and Shantanu you just announced
that Adobe that you're buying Marketo
for I think it was four point seven five
billion I was trying to ask you about
that a few days before you weren't ready
to talk to me about it but you can talk
about it now how does that move an
experienced cloud and what you're trying
to build there fit into this broader
story well I think all three of us
shared this vision of how do we enable
enterprises to put customers at the
front of the digital journey and Satya
and Bill said getting behavioral data
getting transactional data and getting
customer engagement to be the front and
center I think is the most important
thing that enterprises can do so that
digital is actually a tailwind rather
than headwind what Marketo does is add
to our offerings in the experience cloud
of being able to create this unified
profile for all customers and the thing
that every customer will tell you today
is that they want an engaging experience
with whoever they're doing business with
whether it's financial services whether
it's automotive whether it's retail and
Adobe focused a lot more on b2c
customers but the same requirements that
were true for b2c customers are now true
for b2b customers and that's what
Marketo provides it's actually a bunch
of
senior execs built from ASAP that are
now you know running Marketo is this a
closed party are Amazon Google
Salesforce welcome to this initiative
how does it work from here now that you
guys are finished there very clear but
the name itself should sort of tell
everything it's an open data initiative
you guys in technology name things all
kinds of stuff spirit here is not about
us it is about really unlocking the data
that is our customers data about their
own customers but I think what is
foundational here is trust in other
words ultimately customers will decide
and compliance with their own customers
trust in them is also going to be very
key because if you think about it one of
them top considerations for anything
around customer data is privacy and
regulation around privacy so the most
important thing here would be for each
vendor to think through how they
participate here and ensure that there
is more trust in the entirety of the
value chain starting with the end
consumer to the brand and to us as
software vendors or you know tech
companies and so I think depending on
the business model I think the real
challenge is going to be for some who
really want to join but their business
model is probably not going to allow
them to join like you think it's going
to be harder for an Amazon or a Google
you'll have to ask them but I think
overall though what we have all anchored
on is if we can create an architecture
an incentive system that turns the tide
to put customers in control of their own
customer data I think the overall
economy will be better off now so that's
what we are trying to get done John if I
may add to that for a second I mean what
we have already demonstrated by having a
common taxonomy for this customer
journey meaning what meaning how you
define a customer how you define the
demographics how you define the lifetime
value how you define their interests we
have actually agreed across the
companies despite the fact that we have
some o
laughing products in that space I think
demonstrates our commitment to this open
data initiative and the fact that you
have customers who are excited about
building on top of the foundation that
we have I think gives us a lot of
confidence that this is the right thing
for enterprises bill how long you think
this is going to take take - to actually
get the Box today it's the specs out on
this year initiatives so that other
companies can join people understand
what they have to do with their
platforms with their software to be
compliant I think the big announcement
today represents that Microsoft Adobe NS
ap have already begun this journey so in
terms of others wanting to join the
journey we're happy to share the
reference architecture around the ODI
initiative I do think the big story here
though is trust and I think Satya and
Shantanu both said it very well think
about trust as the ultimate human
currency think about customer experience
is the most important priority think
about the power of getting the people
inside these companies to focus clearly
on what's going on outside of these
companies this idea of the net present
value of a more satisfied and loyal
customer plus making the employees more
inspired and more loyal is probably the
biggest value driver that we can ever
come up with let me think about this a
5% improvement in retention is
equivalent to a 95 percent improvement
in profit for most companies so if we
can connect that data to their consumers
and give them an unimaginably good
experience what is that going to do for
revenues and profits for all the
companies that we care for big big
breakthrough ok we're talking about
flexibility we're talking about
efficiency and the backdrop here we've
got a UN General Assembly meeting we've
got something going on with the Deputy
Attorney General in Washington perhaps a
change happening there we've got a trade
war happening between the US and China
and that's arguably not the only one
going on to what extent is politics
having an impact on the demand for
product your ability to project what
what what demand is going to be out in
the marketplace these days or as
business just
coming on as usual I look at the thing
at least that we seem thanks in part to
the industry we participate in is
digital technology is increasingly
becoming pervasive when all parts of the
world in all sectors of the economy and
so therefore I think it's incumbent on
us as the tech industry to ensure that
these businesses are creating
opportunity in every economy in every
society because if you think about it
the politics is always going to be
associated with what's the well-being of
any region any community in any country
and as long as technology can play a
role in that ultimate success in
creating surplus that's equitably
distributed I think these short-term
bumps will work out but to me that's
what it is what both I think we have a
real opportunity which we are obviously
exercising but we also have a
responsibility to make sure the
technologies benefits a broad spectrum
broad spread and bill sa P a German
company technically how does not being a
us-based company at this time when
there's a lot of trade tension between
the US and Europe between the US and a
lot of different countries in Asia how
is that affecting the way people look at
sa P when they're looking to engage with
technology and build up their business
well obviously we we consider ourselves
a truly global software company I think
that's very important distinction there
is no doubt however that tensions
between for example some Asian countries
in the United States are pretty high
right now and it's probably less so for
a German company if you think about
where headquarters might be located but
in all seriousness I think we're focused
in an all tech leaders are responsible
around wanting things to work out
between countries and technology
companies and right now I think we all
would benefit greatly from you know an
environment where we stay focused on
growth
and to me open countries are prosperous
countries and if you look at the history
of the world any time a country has been
open it's actually equalled more
Commerce more opportunities for
everybody so we abide by that principle
but there's no doubt in the ASEAN
countries in particular I see a newfound
strength in our business model shantanu
it feels to me like we're entering a new
era in cloud where more M&A more
partnerships and initiatives like this
one how do you look at the market
because it seems for a while big
companies like you guys were holding off
on doing a lot of M&A because things
were expensive but your values gone up
too and it seems like your pace of M&A
has picked up a bit what's your take on
on the market for M&A right now well
first I think you know all three of us
were early adopters of the cloud and
recognized the benefits of more rapid
innovation that we could do on the cloud
of the trust and security that comes
from all of this data being in the cloud
but you know I think we look at it and
say in order to really solve fundamental
customer problems putting the onus on
integration on customers to work with a
number of small companies is just not
going to work and that's where I think
you know what we're trying to do with
ODI is say if leaders in our categories
can come together and make it work
that's going to be extremely
facilitative of companies doing it so I
do think you'll see more consolidation
as a result of IT professionals not
wanting to integrate small systems but
to rely on large companies who are
innovating at a fast pace you feel the
same yeah I mean I think one of the
things that we're really doing is
bringing down the friction and improving
the agility one of the interesting
things that you know Bill mentioned was
say the ASEAN region if you look at
cloud AI and the open data initiative
the idea that even a small business in
Indonesia can now use sa P Adobe and
Microsoft to become that much more
fishing is the real opportunity so
you're bringing down that barrier to be
able to use the latest and greatest
technology for every business in every
part of the world by really working
together it's easy to get started it's
easy to take data from one place to the
other easy to use AI to reason over it
to create new experiences and it's
amazing it's in some sense we're
commoditizing the technology as an input
for driving business ok and on ma you
expect to see an increased pace I think
MA
first of all if you look at all of our
R&D budgets I think most people
obviously gravitate towards M&A but the
organic investments that each of us are
making is by far the largest of course
we're going to complement that
supplement that with M&A where it makes
sense but I think the real thing that
you're seeing is growth in across all
our businesses which is driven by
fundamentally organic growth well it's
an extraordinary moment having the three
of you sitting here talking about this
open data initiative Satya Nadella
thanks for bringing it all together
Shantanu narayan from Adobe bill
McDermott frame/s ap thank you skies in
New York back to you the market has been
by virtue of the fact that we've had
this record-setting run the Dow joins
the the record-setting move last week
the market has been able to ignore
almost everything that comes out of
Washington so how do you put this into
the calculus today for investors I think
today's event in itself probably will
not will not play a big role I think the
biggest risk out of Washington is based
between escalation and potential for
tariff implementation we've seen some
already and we need to see what happens
as far as 2019 goes fundamentals have
been exceptionally strong when you look
at equities you've seen an extremely
healthy buyback trade also that
continues to support the market along
with valuations that are by no means
stretched so we think you have a good
backdrop we just need basically need to
see what happens with tariffs because
those are a risk to 2019 numbers market
was already going to be down today as a
result of these reports that China
cancelled the meeting over over trade so
we took that leg lower as I said on the
Rosenstein headlines but it's it's been
remarkable though that the market hasn't
really cared much about trade either for
more than a few hours or a day I'm
when you look at when you look at
earnings earnings so far have not really
been there hasn't been any material
impact in terms of bottom line prints
and earnings so far companies are
starting to talk more and more about
risk around terrorists but like again
not no impact on earnings thus far I
think that's a risk that we're basically
paying close attention to for 2019 and
that's where I think you're seeing a
market has been fairly fairly resilient
so far we you're not working into your
models trying to factor in what happens
in the midterms we're only six weeks out
it's very hard I mean look there is
phase one has been implemented on
tariffs part of phase two has been
implement their discussion about phase
three clearly phase three goes through
numbers for 2019 we think will come down
at least by five bucks in terms of for
EPS if possibly up to ten but again it's
very hard to distinction between what's
reality and what's basically noise yeah
well we're gonna get the midterm
elections that that's not noise I mean
it's the reality of what's gonna happen
the outcome is is far unknown at this
point Lindsey so how do you factor it
all in yeah it's definitely hard to
factor in usually you see volatility
increase significantly in the third
quarter going into midterm elections are
usually up 34% we haven't seen that this
year looking a lot of the different
polls that are out there it seems like
the Democrats are gonna take over the
house which would just result in more
gridlock within Congress which doesn't
bode well for growth and the market
going forward I don't know what could be
negative about gridlock in the in the
White House or in in Washington what
could they do we've got the tax plan
there right yeah you've got the economy
that's going you know on all cylinders
so why would gridlock be negative you
know what I misstated I don't mean that
it will be negative what I really mean
is that it you're not going to see any
growth policies really be pushed through
there's just going to be infighting not
a lot is going to get done and you're
right the market usually typically does
well when there is a gridlock in the
market I just don't expect increase
amounts of fabulous copy there is the
same gridlock is good right yeah right
and and I and I think that the way that
Congress is is positioned now and the
way that it's anticipated the election
will come out which is the house with
the Democrats and the Senate with the
Republicans that could change but even
if that happens we've got the girl
policies in effect we've got regulations
that have been cut back
we've got tax plan going forward so I
don't see what the issue is with that I
think gridlock would be fine in terms of
what happens with Rosen Stein going
forward I don't really see the issues
there either to me maybe this is the
smoking gun that allows Trump to go
after Jeff Sessions and say he worked
for you you should have known this you
should have kept him in check even then
though I think it's a momentary sell in
the market but the market keeps going
I'm with you I'm more concerned about
inflation we're seeing used-car prices
move up while oil is not part of the
core still the impact of higher energy
prices feeds into everything the
feedstock so that's my biggest concern
so the market seems to be taking a three
point ten ten year roughly three point
window in stride de Bravo your year-end
targets 3000 we're not all that far away
from that level as we speak at what
point do you start to get a little more
bullish is there a chase for a
performance into into year-end do you
take some comfort that these high-growth
sectors which have fueled much of this
rally have taken what appears to be a
little bit of a backseat these value
stocks that should be going up in in
what is a very strong economy are
finally even with tariffs industrial
stocks are performing so well so we've
had this price target out for now almost
a year and we've had to defend it on
many different occasions earlier this
year where there was a lot of volatility
market continues to be quite resilient I
think actually the market probably would
have been above 3000 already if it
wasn't for trade and trade escalation
and an old Terra discussion so for us
again we're really looking at 2019 right
now if you look at consensus it's
implying about 10% growth we think 11
percent is something that's achievable
but again that's very much so contingent
upon what happens with tariffs if we
think that thing things start to
converge you get some form of resolution
I would say the market probably can move
a lockstep with earnings for next year
maybe five to ten percent but if there
is getting implemented then I think we
need to perhaps take a pause
taras bring the inflation and Steve's
correct to identify that I think what
you're seeing right now in the US ten
years is that you're gonna see a move
towards three and a quarter percent I
also think when you look at enter
right now I think the street is under
invested as it relates to energy oil
prices you've got Brent above $80 right
now the trend for Brent's crude oil for
the remainder of the year is gonna be
higher and higher know myself personally
I'm adding to my energy exposure I think
the trend is sent there but I think
there's a little bit for everyone on a
day like today so yes you have some of
the value names you you close the gap
between growth and value over the last
couple of weeks and if you look at the
market equal weight versus cap-weighted
okay equal weight is slightly
outperforming but on a day like today
there's a little bit for everyone so you
seen technology names come back a little
bit today they're outperforming some of
these value oriented Intex still on pace
for its worst month since its March it
is but but but the question is do you
exhaust the the move that we've seen
without tech coming back it's happened
before listen it's happened before again
so you might have in July and August
borrowed a little bit from September I
don't think that changes the overall
trend for technology itself Friday you
get this communication services sector
so talking to a lot of hedge fund
managers this weekend they're gonna lose
Google they're going to lose Facebook
they're gonna lose
TripAdvisor they're gonna Bava is gonna
go into the consumer discretionary now
much much further investment how much
further Josh can the market go up from
here without tech joining joining even
though we've proved that it's not
necessary this this quarter healthcare
is up almost 12% and industrials were up
11% and we made new record highs in the
Dow last week we made a new record high
in the SP on several occasions
so you actually proved it already that
you can have the best leading sector on
a three-year basis take a pause and
other sectors provided the earnings
backdrop is strong and the market itself
is stable can take the lead and can push
the index to new high look listen
retailers at multi-year highs telling
them all-time highs
who would have thought that was possible
going back to as recently as December
January so yeah it would be great if
Amazon wasn't nine percent off a tie and
Netflix was making new high every day
and Apple was making new high-end toy do
you expect a rebound I'm making the
point that it's okay if it's not
personally I think the fattest pitch in
the entire stock market right now is
alphabet
technically the setup here I think if
you get this thing probably 20 25 points
higher where really nobody is down in
this stock significantly outperforming
Facebook in the midst of this large cap
tech drawdown alphabet is the name but
but put that one idea aside the bigger
picture idea and I think this was
alluded to earlier actually gridlock
will be phenomenal the American public
told the Gallup poll recently that they
prefer it including Republicans they
want to check on this president at this
point even if they're Republicans is
number one number two if you actually
look going back to 1950 the stock market
does the the third best of any outcome
when you have a Republican in the White
House and one house of Congress
controlled by Democrats it's not the
best possible scenario but it's the
third no that's not negative but that's
why we ask the questions to our experts
about the political calculus if
Rosenstein is actually fired and what
the outcome could be if that could tilt
the outcome at all America schools or
dramatic midterms that's a really good
question if you were if you would ask me
in December what's the biggest risk to
the stock market I would not have said
recession or earnings or any of the oil
or any of that stuff the dollar I would
have said an exogenous shock caused by
something in Washington where we get a
Saturday night Saturday night mass
massacre and everyone loses confidence
in the US stock market at once
I no longer believe that's the case
because I think the market now expects
some version of impeachment proceedings
this fall not saying it'll be successful
I'm not saying Trump is in trouble I'm
just saying the market now expects this
this is the base case that we are going
to have a vicious political no maybe
maybe Jimmy the exogenous shock is the
Democrats taking both houses and I mean
at some point when you got wood shop
tomorrow I think that would be the shock
you're only six weeks out let's not
forget it's not that way where all of
those questions are gonna be asked why
if because it's very unexpected I mean
and I'm sure you do your polls as well
everybody's expecting a democratic house
and a Senate Republican or choosing a
Republican Senate look if they go
through impeachment in that in that
scenario you've got to stop in the
Senate if it's Republican it goes
nowhere if it's Democratic then you
actually have to think about the
investing
Asians go on though let me you're a
because the big question here is what
has the market priced in at least that's
the big question to me we've got a
divergence here that's telling us the
market is pricing in a lot of bad things
what's that divergence you've got killer
earnings all right the last two quarters
earnings have just blown the cover off
the ball and expectations still go
higher you mentioned that in terms of 5
to 10 percent growth in this late in the
cycle 5 to 10 percent growth year over
year is incredible but the multiple has
contracted to turns since the beginning
of the year that is the markets way of
saying don't know if it's tariffs don't
know if it's impeachment don't know if
it's in place you'd think the marketing
that all in there and what the other
than the two you think the market has
priced in the worst of tariffs yes no
you think the market has wait let me get
the punchline here ok whatever whether
it's priced in all the tariffs are not
true ok it's priced in bad news that's
why we're - turns on no what has he
you're never gonna finish dude the
Mobile's contracted because rates have
risen slowly and shortly but they had
they were to yield on the - excuse me
the yield on a two-year the older than
ten-year they've risen and as a result
yeah you should not have an expanding
stock market multiple you have great
earnings tempered by the fact that money
is not as cheap as it was okay so it's
not like a rocket science wait a second
it's never one thing so don't say that
it's just mostly one thing and don't no
it's not it's not and by the way we've
got earnings season coming up there's
been no pre announcements okay looks
like that's basically for you now feel
free to make your point but let's make
them go hearing right then I'll just
summarize look you're setting up for
another good earnings season third in a
row what's gonna meet are we gonna have
expectations on earnings continue to
rise and multiples contract I don't
think so
it's more likely at this stage in the
cycle that the multiple starts to pick
up but we have that much of a
disagreement on the desk as to whether
tariffs are fully priced they're not
president there's at this point last
week I was talking about that there was
going to be a trilateral agreement
between Mexico Canada and the US and
that's why the market was rally we we
have not got that so
and I think as it relates Oh what's
going on with the Chinese further
implementation of these tariffs raises
prices that's a problem for the US
consumer that's a problem for US
corporations and it is an inflationary
impact but the market doesn't draw
economy clearly the market doesn't think
that it's going to be that punitive to
earning 100 this point absolutely I said
that I disagree I think what is priced
in right now is a favorable outcome at
some point can I can I just come back to
his point pre-announcement see I'll
disagree facts had put out piece on it
last week saying that it's been the
highest percentage of negative pre
announcements since the first quarter of
2016 but you can't really have it both
ways you can't say that so much is
priced into the market yet strong
earnings which everybody's been talking
about and uniformly agrees are going to
occur this quarter isn't priced in well
that's the point expectations are
extremely high going into the third
quarter because we've had such great
numbers out of the first and second
quarter your the expectations are high
going into the third quarter you just
saw the CEO Business Roundtable
confidence come out today CEOs are
worried about tariffs you heard UPS talk
about it they said it only impacted
about 10 percent of their revenues so
far micron mentioned it we're gonna hear
this word on conference calls
significantly third quarter what if you
need to wait to the conference right
right Macy's
Office Depot I could go down the list
argue all thread Smith and I grew that
and so I think what you after pears look
CEOs who do one of two things they're
not gonna say hey Trump's doing the
wrong thing right they'll couch it and
say hey we're more cautious going
forward because of the cost inputs going
higher to your point we had the last
quarter in the quarter before that great
earnings without the tariff issues and
what the markets do after the quarterly
announcements what they did what Derek
you did have a point and then I want to
profit are fishes in there last time and
also you got to use the numbers here two
hundred billion ten percent tariffs
twenty billion dollars a year on the
sp500 I don't think it's going to show
up I understand the concern about
inflation so I'm not saying it's not
there I'm saying it's small and that's
in the market that's what I'm saying
and as we ask the question whether the
worst of the tariffs
where them are here but you suggested
yes I did I'm standing by it you're
halfway through what the maximum
possible tariffs now if we don't play if
you get 25% on another you throw in
another 267 okay you're you're correct
that I'm assuming rationality you've got
the rest against you now huh you got the
referee on you too if we continue to
play a game of I'll see your 200 billion
and raise you another 50 billion that's
gonna be a problem for the market in
2004 tariffs on Rothko no I think I
think terrorists are partially priced in
I don't think entirely I think if you do
go into phase 3 I mean first of all I
think if they implement 25% on phase 2
that in itself will likely bring down
some of the numbers in 19 which I don't
think it's fully priced in I do think
partially it is
I think multiple is a function of rates
at fully agree I do think that trade
however is also something that's
limiting the multiple from re-rating
maybe not by 2x but regrading by 1x
gridlock just another thing I just want
to mention real quickly I do fully agree
gridlock I think is a positive because
out of DC last year you had a pro-growth
agenda this year you have an anti growth
so you get a gridlock I think the market
likes that can I ask you this market has
been driven by buybacks
if the CEOs get a whiff of a slowdown in
growth do you think you'll continue to
see the aggressive nature of buybacks
that we've seen the last couple nor you
need to see it even more so if that's
what they need to grow earnings they
would double down on by that there's no
indication that they are seeing this
slow we had Jamie Dimon the the JPMorgan
CEO on just a few moments ago with our
own Jim Cramer it's a CNBC exclusive
interview in Philadelphia here's what he
said about the state of the economy
America the economy is quite strong and
and it's growing at 3% it has been now
for a couple of quarters and looks like
that way there are no great potholes so
let me very well continue no indication
from Jamie Dimon sees a whole lot of
stuff in the things that he looks at
that we're gonna get that slowdown that
you say well if we get a slowdown
companies maybe gonna buy a little less
of their stock back now I think look at
the big risk is tariffs and impact on
margins I think when you look at the
economy you're basically looking
employment which is a very strong job at
strong you're finally seeing some wage
inflation which is basically helping the
consumers and actually there's one thing
that
if you look at q2 Ghana's most companies
we're actually talking about the
consumer strength right so again I don't
think that the earnings picture is I
don't think it's that clear that you
know expect expectations have risen but
I don't think they're extreme teres is a
negative but on the other side I think
you have an economist what's the house
view on what's the house view on the
ten-year and Quentin and just just the
the premium and how small it's gotten
and and what do you think really would
impact stock prices if it's not you know
if we're not really gonna worry about
the curve then what would we worry about
I'm glad you asked that question because
my next question to you was gonna be
we've gone you know 22 minutes here and
we've talked about all of these
potential risk inflation I get it but
the the word the Fed hasn't even been
mentioned yet they're gonna be front and
center this week how much of a wild card
is that and it plays right into Josh's
question yes so look that the Fed hiking
rates I think is a gradual negative it
is eating into margin slowly but we
estimated margins for instance when you
look at earnings margins won't get
impacted entirely until Fed hikes for
another at least fifty two hundred bits
if you look at interest expense and the
debt levels I think the multiple is a
function of yield so again if you'll
move higher say north of three and a
half three and three-quarters I do think
this becomes an issue but let's first
get there again our house view I would
say probably is more in line with
between a quarter to three and a half
now pension funds US pension funds
corporate pension funds government
pension funds are just insatiable buyers
of 10-year Treasury they're getting way
heavy into private equity and so to
counter that lack of liquidity
it's a barbell on the other side they're
going nuts on on Troy which i think is
the reason for this narrowing spread and
not economic concern you would you agree
with that I would agree yes I've had
many many PM's basically tell me asset
allocators tell me 10-year yield at 3
percent that's a buying opportunity for
like the whole world yes huge pulls up
when you look at what's happening abroad
with Germany Japan it's so where do you
think so the question that I ask people
that nobody knows the answer to because
we're in sea rescue for environment is
where do you see restrictive policy now
it used to be over five percent clearly
it's not could be there anymore
where is it
so I would say probably three and three
quarters four percent anything above
that I think becomes restrictive unless
we have new reasons coming out
suggesting growth will accelerate but
you don't have your your you know your
sector waiting czar what would you
recommend right now is the top three
places to be in the market we've been
pushing last several months a barbell
portfolio I'm sort of using the same
same same term here basically we
continue to like tech because we do
think that the late cycle you won't have
exposure to growth people pay a premium
for gross car city but at the same time
given how extreme this location levels
have become in the market we're saying
don't be naked on the value side have
value anchors we like financials with
like industrials we like energy but
you're I guess the reason I asked you
the question is by virtue of the fact
that you have those sectors tech
financials industrials energy growth
cyclical you can't be worried about all
that much no we're not we think that the
business suckled economic cycle is
intact not just in the US but globally
again I keep mentioning tariffs and
trade escalation is my biggest worry for
2019 in terms of do we move sideways or
do we potentially move higher by 10%
when you look at the emerging markets
relative to where they are versus the US
is that a great opportunity on a
longer-term basis we do think so we do
think that emerging markets increasingly
becoming a very attractive opportunity
risk reward is quite attractive
positioning is very negative sentiment
is very negative I'm with you on this
China I mean it's basically in a
recession territory when you look at the
gap between US and China we think look
there's there's a lot of interesting
buying opportunities it's very difficult
coming up with the catalysts and timing
the catalyst but again six-month a
12-month view we think am definitely I
think the risk though on that trade well
you get more reward but so much more has
to go right for you to get the reward
now I disagree we actually did a lot of
work on this recently we had some
questions from clients it turns out when
you buy emerging markets as Anand as a
sector as an asset class after 20%
declines the CNBC exclusive hey again
Jeff thank you so much Karl yep we're
here with Jamie Dimon Jamie this is
quite a commitment to an area that
frankly has gone from bank to unbanked
city just pulled out over the course the
last five years 15 million dollars and
network 330 banks have closed in the
last 10 years why why not yeah well you
know with regulatory reform and tax
form where you now says 20 billion
dollar thing going to many cities
obviously Philadelphia is the seventh
largest mark in the United States that's
not including their biggest suburb
called New York and you know we and we
like to be part of a community we're
already here in investment banking
commercial banking and private banking
retail is a gap so we're gonna open 50
branches 20 percent will be in LMI
neighborhoods neighborhoods like this
and when we come in we bring the full
force of JP Morgan which is philanthropy
dollars but to really help people like
entrepreneur color funds affordable
housing units and and we enjoy it it's
good for the company and over time and
we're we invest the long-run we never
pulling it out of something talk about
the multiplier effect and when you open
a branch people think you know what we
don't need branches anymore everything's
digital yeah but brick the more works
it's amazing so I think people aren't
thinking clearly a million people
visited branches every day the type of
branch is gonna change the size that
branch contained they're getting smaller
but more advice so there's a mortgage
loan office in there there's a small
business loan officer there's a
financial adviser but your financial
affairs so that'll change but a million
people even even the average millennial
visits something like three times a
quarter so to me the question of brands
no more forget they'll change but you
still need to serve your client the way
they want to be served not the way I
want to serve them as you know we've
rolled out all these new products too
right like like finding the online-only
back well maybe mention this because a
lot of people feel that 10 years ago one
of the problems was the education the
borrower the boy or did not know enough
about what to do you said to be someone
in there literally to help and to teach
yeah well that make a difference versus
say 10 years ago yeah I've told the
people here when you go to these LMI
neighborhoods try something special but
we were gonna roll a lot of financial
education tools we have you invest we're
gonna roll out a self advised group and
we haven't decided price yet so that you
could advise and think about we already
put on the screen you can get your FICO
score and we're gonna teach you ways and
you what you can improve your FICO so
that you can reduce cost a bar and stuff
like that we have to do a better job not
just us but the America educating people
in financial matters from rainy day
funds to handle you know retirement
accounting and so we're making
especially have to do that now it's only
have things coming out that hopefully
our customers will enjoy let's talk
about the power of business versus the
power of government
government legendarily got big
settlements from different banks 13
billion dollars from you yeah Keith
Blood says that you pay a total of 44
billion did that money go into the
community and did that was that the way
to get things done versus the targeted
way you're doing well this actually ups
community I mean that some of those
funds we don't actually know how they
dispersed and I think one day someone
should look at that and you know I cried
the past we've moved forward about how
we do it for you but this is how you
build a community small business lending
affordable housing branches that advise
people and we know that that works
cities know this City Philadelphia your
great hometown let's think the city is
doing better and better and better but
parts it or not and so we do make a
special effort in those parts of that
city now there is a sense that lending
nationally is slowed down I'm not
getting that from your bank can you give
us a sense of what's going on in places
that frankly are unbanked and whether
there is a revival that can actually
move the needle field so one of one
important thing these things work when
you do it with civic society and
government okay they don't work we're at
each other so we've seen all around the
world when mayors not-for-profits
businesses work together you can get
people jobs you get them in train to get
them employed and it actually works and
so but in America America the economy is
quite strong and and it's growing at 3%
it has been now for a couple of quarters
and it looks like that way there are no
great potholes so let me very well
continue and so lending it there is a
little bit reduction lending in middle
mark we don't exactly know why large
corporations of course bonds public
markets could clients be to flush I
think you know it we do know there's an
effect that through tax reform and
corporations or any money they need to
borrow less it's just hard to figure it
ease it out but that really means but if
you tow look at employment growth people
going back to work it's pretty good all
right now last week you told CNBC that
it's not it don't call it a trade war I
call it a trade skirmish previously you
have said that there could be at times
perhaps a slowdown or at least in the
psyche because of the of any sort of
trade war how do you feel I told her
Traci scores twenty billion dollars of
tariffs in and of themselves are a
little bit of attack if that all gets
paid is a tax in American people do
other things
they they have the other supply lines
but the 20 trillion dollar economy so
that that is a negative
the real negative isn't that it's
confidence consistency if people start
reducing investment people start moving
the supply chains around that we have
seen already moves the markets a little
bit and so and the fear that the
skirmish may become a war so we really
don't think it's a great way to go bad
it could easily have said some of the
benefits they've seen from regulatory
reform and tax reform
I want you talking about regulate for me
yeah Marian Lake said recently a
fabulous CFO that we haven't really seen
genuine regulatory that would make her
happy but there's been so much it's been
change of attitude no yeah so I think if
you when I travel around CEOs of other
industries logistics steel manufacturing
pipeline they've all seen it have we
seen actual changes in regulation for us
not really they have a long list of
things they want to do
there has been regulatory change for the
smaller banks which we totally support
to make a little bit easier for them
reduced to burn them but it doesn't
didn't have any to do for the bigger
banks I think I mean in the public's you
know we're not asking for throwing out
dodd-frank we're simply people so we
look at calibrating getting rid of
duplication looking at things that hurt
the mortgage markets or at this kind of
market so you could enhance growth and
do it safely no one's looking at you
know going back to good old days just
recalibrating remember there were 2,000
rules it wasn't like one or two was a
lot and they were done in haste and
people show he's rash and look at
cost-benefit you know what makes sense
what doesn't all keeping the system
safer
I remember growth a stronger economy it
also makes the financial system safer
now you just mentioned no rate potholes
we've got a Fed meeting that's coming up
this week they spread that you would get
to intend to use the you know like the
typical logic that people say means that
you can't make as much money and if we
can't lend as much so I'm going to say
the no potholes the households in good
shape people going back to work fight
customers say hydro stores are fine
companies of flage tax reform is still a
benefit we don't have the extreme
leverage we hadn't Oh 8 and and all the
lending has been pretty good prime good
good lending so it's not been billing
but absolutely there's friction out
there there's always friction you open
up a newspaper any week of any month
there's tons of friction and it's
mounting brexit
we Turkey Argentina oh and we don't know
the full effect of those things so yeah
we keep our eye on that but it may not
derail the economy you're gonna see
separate the two I keep thinking these
are all things that should play to your
fortress balance sheet strength we've
not seen we got European banks that are
really really on the run so to speak why
doesn't JP Morgan make you greater
presence
given the weakness the rest of the world
well we do we're in every country and
we're steady growing and we do country
by country anymore bankers systems
people and all the support risk legal
credit compliance so our share in Europe
has gone up considerably and and we're
just doing for adding people and adding
branches and you know the basic good old
three yards of the cloud of dust
okay when I hear three us I think you
should get a higher price dirties
vulnerable for Evans sake you're selling
it twelve times an extra surgeries we've
been at this game for a long time if
we're your growth financial with money
that's made every single day you open
the door why aren't you valued like it's
a blossom tea company that's a question
you're gonna have to answer then your
banks are under still under political
regulatory constraints and all that we
just went through the crisis I think a
lot of people's investors buy always a
little worried but you're right worrying
very good returns in capital we're
growing you know whenever when a cycle
hit obviously it could affect the bank
but we will manage right through that
cycle just like we did it right through
the last one okay when I think about
that I think that you must be in there
buying stock every day for the company
you've chosen a path of buying back
stock shrinky but I still can't believe
how many shares you have for the last
ten years your share count is not going
down enough when will you start getting
back to a level that where you really
are not where you're sopping up the door
supply I don't remember the exact number
but I our share comes down like 15
percent yeah but we're doing six versus
ten years ago two three five and yes
yeah well there's some have been issued
over time but since I've been there it's
been coming down so but if you want to
look at something I would prefer to
spend that money not buying back stock
doing this so growing our business is
far better for the economy right now we
don't have a lot of choices but over
time I really would prefer not to buy
back stock you know the companies to do
it would make sense I also don't buy
this argument that it's bad buying back
stock is simply giving it back to you an
investor who then redeploys to a better
use its redeployment of capital that
should be redeployed if a company can't
use it but mine my druthers always to
grow our business which we're now doing
okay
I've heard of branches we're now in all
major cities for investment banking
middle market banking etc we've been
growing overseas but think about any
bankers and people and stuff like that
so that is my preppie 2p you invest now
building products and services so you're
gonna see a lot more for that coming the
next 12 months when I think about this
and I'm very proud of what you're doing
in my home city but I do say ok well
Apple of pure capitalist is you know
Jamie we're shareholders we should get
that money I there's no real instant
payoff here within 2 3 years it's gonna
take a long time no it's not true I mean
first of all accounting you have to be
careful about but when we build a branch
ok and we put a mean I don't know we
want to give the numbers publicly we put
capital in the branch but five years
later that branch could could be earning
contributing to profit a million dollars
a year so you know the the timetable of
that new cities it's a little more
complicated than we open a branch the
city we're in but again we already serve
60 million households we want to serve
70 million we want to bring them to all
the proxy service we have so there there
is a financial payoff it just it is not
overnight but I don't worry about that I
just explained to people like you that
that's okay the NPV is very good and
it's gonna be negative the first year
you know maybe breakdowns by the third
year and then a plus a plus for
depositors at JPMorgan we're not getting
the rate that when are you gonna start
paying your CD and your depositors more
when rates came down the but it came
down like this as race came down to zero
banks didn't do it
so race started going up they didn't
pass it on I think now you asleep elope
other options money market funds etc but
I think now as rates go up the next 25
the next 25 there's you'll see what we
called beta you know how much will be
passed on it'll go up and up and up well
is that going to shrink profitability
not I'd be worried not not really
because it's we're getting or gaining
deposits and the spread that you're
maintaining between your cost of funds
and your pain would be about the same
Jamie you're talking about with the
polity just like the politicians did in
1964 you talk about a war on poverty
that business seems to be doing a better
job you mentioned it in the big
settlements from say 2013 when attorney
associate attorney general Tony West was
kind of after the bank that was you be
on the defensive you're playing the
offensive and trying to change poverty
in this country do you
you than you can do it better in the
government no I think I feel you I think
government and business have to do it
together and it works at a local level
we see it in Detroit we see it in New
Orleans we see in Chicago we see in LA
you see in Philadelphia with great ideas
and most of the things you talk about
affordable housing skills commercial
development audre it's not Democrat a
Republican but I think business and
government together can do it business
you can't do without business and
business can't do without government you
know government obviously is gonna play
a role in both the terms of regulation
and licensing and stuff like that and
while America is the most prosperous
nation the planet we really have to
focus on these issues about income
inequality infrastructure opioid crisis
lack of education in the state schools
end up in good jobs Jamie yeah you know
what you sound like when you say these
things you sound like a politician I'm a
patriot okay but if you're a patriot so
is generalizing now we didn't know
whether there's a Democrat Republican
buddy ran for president he was a patreon
world war two well I'm a banker guy I'm
not running I just I think it's very
important that we have good policy and
that we should focus on good policy and
all the time and you know as you know I
don't mind speaking about good policy
analyze it and participate in a way that
JP Morgan can so if you're in other
areas or other comes will do a better
job than we camps they're far more
knowledgeable but in these kind of areas
we can really help communities are good
business skills ever really transferable
to government though I think some are
yeah I mean Administration management
leadership organization but it doesn't
mean a CEO will translate to a good
politician you know politicians have a
whole set of different skills and you
know relating to people and
understanding empathy and so but it
doesn't mean I would never say never
that people can or can't some have done
it most have they don't say never say
never again it brings me back to the
dial I would never say never for someone
else I would not say a CEO cannot be a
good president do you think it's too
soon and the president Trump was a CEO
so you just met mere American teachers
in Philadelphia that's something that
would not I don't say frowned upon but
wouldn't be believable ten years ago
when bankers were it considered to be
antithetical to democracy even because
of President Obama what has it changed
enough that now you're welcoming
communities that were solid Democratic
areas that Democrat areas that I think
really abhor bankers it's nice to be
welcomed
but just so you know we never stopped
seeing mayor's governor's presidents
prime ministers Senate even even people
who didn't like us because we always
said it isn't about they like it are we
doing a good job or the legitimate
complaints we should handle what should
we do to make it better for people and
so we never stopped doing it but it's
nice that's done you know when people do
like yeah okay I want to speak about the
country you have been on record saying
we know greatest military greatest
educational system is there no the best
educator the best and the worst okay
well we're failing inner-city school
kids half them don't graduate like in
the poor neighborhoods and a lot of kids
aren't getting the skills they need to
have a job and so that is a feeling we
should be ring ringing an alarm bell
about that but we don't and I don't know
why well I don't what can you do beyond
what you already did what we're doing a
tremendous amount in skill so what we do
in skills we go to local schools like we
now working a Guttman in New York the
Train is my wife did this by the way to
Train kids to be tellers $36,000 a year
twelve thousand medical and pension
benefits the kids like the jobs and
that's the first rung then they can move
up they can become a banker and live in
a lot of our branch manager we're
tellers and a lot of the regional
managers would tell us so we could do it
for ourselves but we also help schools
locally well it's a high school well
it's apprenticeships whether it's a
community college with money but it's
not just us it's all businesses need
jobs locally they need special training
so it really has to be done Logue I
should be a national boy 1.5 trillion
dollars in student loans 23% default
list you're supposed to be 40 percent by
I know Marian Lake said look that's not
really an issue for a bank but how about
for a country it's a huge issue you know
we we've lent this old government
lending by the way should and bad
lending is bad but it was the mortgages
you make or businesses one of the things
you have to do is have discipline around
capital so you get a return bridges to
nowhere are bad schools that don't work
are bad lending in money people camp is
a it's a mistake so that student Lenny
was a tremendous amount that's been done
in the last seven years the folks having
a hard time paying it back it's all
owned by the government so it's the
taxpayers gonna lose whatever hundreds
of billions of dollars but it is not
good because what we're seeing today is
that in other lending so mortgages these
kids are having a hard time getting
mortgage
credit card having a hard time getting a
credit card is affecting the economy
it's not like the mortgage crisis
it's a trillion three or trillion four
so it's not I wouldn't cause damage it's
just fun for it's really highly
unfortunate okay let's go back to
international for a second you talked
about the idea the tariffs so far they
you know you've got a skirmish but at
what point would it be a war and at what
point should we be worried that it's
really going overboard you know I'm I
worry about it and I just don't know you
know I mean I think China has been very
predictable in retaliation and I think
the market kind of expected a
tit-for-tat retaliation I think they're
kind of expecting NAFTA to get done it
could get worse from here and I just I
really don't know what I hope it does I
hope that they sit down and rational
conversations and we have a both NAFTA
which we should do as Canada Mexico good
neighbors of ours I'm going down to
Mexico later this week and with China
and I don't know what the conversations
are behind closed doors anymore so I I
really don't know if I urge I think we
should try to get well again the
president raised very very very good
issues we're only talking about the
process both did his conclusion I hope
their process works I just think it's
kind of a riskier way of the president
said the problem with banker Jamie Dimon
running for president she doesn't have
the app tutor the smarts and there's a
poor public speaker nervous mess that
doesn't sound like cooperation yeah but
how did you patch that up I mean I'm
sure in the last 10 days you patched
this I have not spoken to the president
yeah then and and but my okay my I made
a mistake I shouldn't yell at Yap like
that in which some of you were mentioned
on TV but I do want to focus on policy
so my view is I let's just focus on
policy I shouldn't be taking you know
shots and having jokes at anyone's
expense would you think would you put
this in the case of say the London whale
where you said it was the stupidest
thing that moments and the stupidest
most embarrassing situation ever been
part of it's just right up there with
the line and well no no I've said a lot
of stupid things in my life but London
well we bought some real money things
you're saying are common-sense things
that we've not heard from bankers we've
heard from bankers be on the defensive
for a decade you really are saying
here's how public-private partnership
make nut make these neighborhoods better
get better since much better schools and
we change our country you change the
city by six
you're trying but again you have a lot
of guests on TV you ask most of them
what they're doing a lot of these
companies are doing stuff just like this
they're not just JP Morgan but all these
companies are part of the BRT
that we actually put out a booklet of
the work skills everyone's doing
something Minh do a lot of diversity
other things are falling behind other
countries we've seen I think in total
we're slipping I think the bad policy is
why we've grown to 2% over the last 10
years and not more and that 2% and the
American parks you know 20 percent
growth in ten years is half what it
should have been it's China gonna pass
this I doubt it okay we this country is
blessed with things that are just way
beyond you know schools and you revert
the good part the university is land
water energy the land of the Pacific are
the best businesses innovation but we
had to sit at series of problems we fix
one an uncompetitive tax system for
business that was a bad idea we have to
fix immigration inner-city schools
opioids we have the ability have a job
we've got to get people back to work
skills we should double the Earned
Income Tax Credit and what is that one
time to have one to point out its reason
and we should have a negative income tax
of some sort make make jobs that people
have because jobs give dignity jobs have
better social outcomes but they need to
be a living wage so I agree with that
concept when I hear from folks and the
Earned Income Tax Credit does that and
we need to double we should double it
and you have to pay more so be it Satya
Nadella the CEO of Microsoft you've
brought this group together
Shantanu Narayan from Adobe bill
McDermott from s AP I've never seen
anything quite like this frankly and
I've been doing this on air and and in
print for a while more than a trillion
dollars worth of market cap represented
by you three gentlemen sitting here and
you're announcing the open data
initiative in the cloud Satya why is
this so important you know the insight
that all three of us had based on the
work we're doing with many customers you
know we talked about coca-cola Unilever
Walmart today as customers we're all
excited about this open data initiative
it's their real insight that led us to
do this which is how do we work to put
them in control of their own customer
data because that's the
currency any brand out there cares
deeply about the continuous improvement
of their own customer data as
understanding and the three of us coming
together is going to be central to them
feeling in control of their own customer
data and the idea being Microsoft with
Azure Dynamics you've got a certain set
of customer data Adobe you've got the
experienced cloud you've got lots of
marketing data different types of data
about the customer and how companies are
trying to reach out to the customer s ap
you've got lots of data to a lot of it
having to do with what's going on inside
the company that's affecting customers
outside as well so what our customer is
going to be able to do and maybe Bill
I'll toss this one to you that they
couldn't do before once you figure out
this open data thing and they're able to
read data across all of your platforms
John there isn't a CEO in the world that
does not want to have a single view of
their customer and they have to connect
their demand chain to their supply chain
and do so in real-time so if you think
about the consumer who's social mobile
they're geospatial they're always on the
fly they're going to shop different
companies in all channels
direct-to-consumer wholesale retail and
you have to make sure that connection
point with that consumer is really
intimate so these companies need to be
intelligent enterprises because more and
more a I and predictive analytics is
going to rule and how you engage with
that customer but ultimately what you
have to do is fulfill so now you're
gonna see the demand and the supply
chain completely integrated and that
data will be shared evenly among our
companies so the customer is the major
benefactor of the open data initiative
we announced today and Shantanu you just
announced that Adobe that you're buying
Marketo for I think it was four point
seven five billion I'll try to ask you
about that a few days before you weren't
ready to talk to me about it but you can
talk about it now how does that move an
experienced cloud and what you're trying
to build there fit into this broader
story well I think all three of us
shared this vision of how do we enable
enterprises to
customers at the front of the digital
journey and Satya and bill said getting
behavioral data getting transactional
data and getting customer engagement to
be the front and center I think is the
most important thing that enterprises
can do so that digital is actually a
tailwind rather than headwind what
Marketo does is add to our offerings in
the experience cloud of being able to
create this unified profile for all
customers and the thing that every
customer will tell you today is that
they want an engaging experience with
whoever they're doing business with
whether it's financial services whether
it's automotive whether it's retail and
Adobe focused a lot more on b2c
customers but the same requirements that
were true for b2c customers are now true
for b2b customers and that's what
Marketo provides it's actually a bunch
of senior execs built ASAP that are now
you know running market or is this a
closed party are Amazon Google
Salesforce welcome to this initiative
how does it work from here now that you
guys have it very clear but the name
itself should sort of tell everything
it's an open data initiative you guys
some technology name things all kinds of
stuff init here is not about us it is
about really unlocking the data that is
our customers data about their own
customers but I think what is
foundational here is trust in other
words ultimately customers will decide
and compliance with their own customers
trust in them is also going to be very
key because if you think about it one of
them top considerations for anything
around customer data is privacy and
regulation around privacy so the most
important thing here would be for each
vendor to think through how they
participate here and ensure that there
is more trust in the entirety of the
value chain starting with the end
consumer to the brand and to us as
software vendors or you know tech
companies and so I think depending on
the business models I think the real
challenge is
to be for some who really want to join
but their business model is probably not
going to allow them to join like you
think it's gonna be harder for an Amazon
or a Google in you you have to ask them
but I think overall though what we have
all anchored on is if we can create an
architecture an incentive system that
turns the tide to put customers in
control of their own customer data I
think the overall economy will be better
off now so that's what we are trying to
get done if I may add to that for a
second I mean what we have already
demonstrated by having a common taxonomy
for this customer journey meaning what
meaning how you define a customer how
you define the demographics how you
define the lifetime value how you define
their interests we have actually agreed
across the companies despite the fact
that we have some overlapping products
in that space I think demonstrates our
commitment to this open data initiative
and the fact that you have customers who
are excited about building on top of the
foundation that we have I think gives us
a lot of confidence that this is the
right thing for enterprises bill how
long do you think this is gonna take
take - to actually get the touch today
it's the specs out on this year
initiatives are that other companies can
join people understand what they have to
do with their platforms with their
software to be compliant I think the big
announcement today represents that
Microsoft Adobe NS ap have already begun
this journey so in terms of others
wanting to join the journey we're happy
to share the reference architecture
around the ODI initiative I do think the
big story here though is trust and I
think Satya and Shantanu both said it
very well think about Trust is the
ultimate human currency think about
customer experience is the most
important priority think about the power
of getting the people inside these
companies to focus clearly on what's
going on outside of these companies this
idea of the net present value of a more
satisfied and loyal customer plus making
the employees more inspired and more
loyal is probably the biggest value
driver that we can
ever come up with let me think about
this a 5% improvement in retention is
equivalent to a 95 percent improvement
in profit for most companies so if we
can connect that data to their consumers
and give them an unimaginably good
experience what is that going to do for
revenues and profits for all the
companies that we care for it's big big
breakthrough ok we're talking about
flexibility we're talking about
efficiency and the backdrop here we've
got a UN General Assembly meeting we've
got something going on with the Deputy
Attorney General in Washington perhaps a
change happening there we've got a trade
war happening between the US and China
and that's arguably not the only one
going on to what extent is politics
having an impact on the demand for
product your ability to project what
what what demand is going to be out in
the marketplace these days or as
business just coming on as usual I mean
the thing at least that we see thanks in
part to the industry we participate in
is digital technology is increasingly
becoming pervasive when all parts of the
world in all sectors of the economy and
so therefore I think it's incumbent on
us as the tech industry to ensure that
these businesses are creating
opportunity in every economy in every
society because if you think about it
the politics is always going to be
associated with what's the well-being of
any region any community in any country
and as long as technology can play a
role in that ultimate success in
creating surplus that's equitably
distributed
I think these short-term bumps will work
out but to me that's what it is what
both I think we have a real opportunity
which we are obviously exercising but we
also have a responsibility to make sure
the technologies benefits a broad
spectrum broad spread and bill sa P a
German company technically how does not
being a us-based company at this time
when there's a lot of trade tension
between the US and Europe between the US
and a lot of
different countries in Asia how is that
affecting the way people look at sa P
when they're looking to engage with
technology and build up their business
well obviously we we consider ourselves
a truly global software company I think
that's very important distinction there
is no doubt however that tensions
between for example some Asian countries
in the United States are pretty high
right now and it's probably less so for
a German company if you think about
where headquarters might be located but
in all seriousness I think we're focused
in in all tech leaders are responsible
around wanting things to work out
between countries and technology
companies and right now I think we all
would benefit greatly from you know an
environment where we stay focused on
growth and to me open countries are
prosperous countries and if you look at
the history of the world anytime a
country has been open it's actually
equalled more Commerce more
opportunities for everybody
so we abide by that principle but
there's no doubt in the ASEAN countries
in particular I see a newfound strength
in our business model Shantanu it feels
to me like we're entering a new era in
cloud where more M&A more partnerships
and initiatives like this one how do you
look at the market because it seems for
a while big companies like you guys were
holding off on doing a lot of M&A
because things were expensive but your
values gone up too and it seems like
your pace of M&A has picked up a bit
what's your take on on the market for
M&A right now well first I think you
know all three of us were early adopters
of the cloud and recognized the benefits
of more rapid innovation that we could
do on the cloud of the trust and
security that comes from all of this
data being in the cloud but you know I
think we look at it and say in order to
really solve fundamental customer
problems putting the onus on integration
on customers to work with a number of
small companies is just not going to
work and that's where I think you know
what we're trying to do without
is say if leaders in our categories can
come together and make it work that's
going to be extremely facilitative of
companies doing it so I do think you'll
see more consolidation as a result of IT
professionals not wanting to integrate
small systems but to rely on large
companies who are innovating at a fast
pace
such an you feel the same yeah I mean I
think one of the things that we're
really doing is bringing down the
friction and improving the agility one
of the interesting things that you know
Bill mentioned was say the ASEAN region
if you look at cloud AI and the open
data initiative the idea that even a
small business in Indonesia can now use
sa P Adobe and Microsoft to become that
much more efficient is the real
opportunity so you're bringing down that
barrier to be able to use the latest and
greatest technology for every business
in every part of the world by really
working together it's easy to get
started it's easy to take data from one
place to the other easy to use AI to
reason over it to create new experiences
and it's amazing it's in some sense we
are commoditizing the technology as an
input for driving business ok and on ma
you expect to see an increased pace I
think ma first of all if you look at all
of our R&D budgets I think most people
obviously gravitate towards M&A but the
organic investments that each of us are
making is by far the largest of course
we're going to complement that
supplement that with M&A where it makes
sense but I think the real thing that
you're seeing is growth in across all
our businesses which is driven by
fundamentally organic growth well it's
an extraordinary moment having the three
of you sitting here talking about this
open data initiative Satya Nadella
thanks for bringing it all together
Shawn - Narayan from Adobe bill
McDermott frame/s ap thank you skies in
New York back to you the market has been
by virtue of the fact that we've had
this record-setting run the Dow joins
the the record-setting move last week
the market has been able to ignore
almost everything that comes out of
Washington so how do you put this in
the calculus today for investors I think
today's event in itself probably will
not will not play a big role I think the
biggest risk out of Washington is
basically trade escalation and potential
for tariff implementation we've seen
some already and we need to see what
happens as far as 2019 goes from the
metals have been exceptionally strong
when you look at equities you've seen an
extremely healthy buyback trade also
that continues to support the market
along with valuations that are by no
means stretched so we think you have a
good backdrop we just need basically
need to see what happens with tariffs
because those are a risk to 2019 numbers
market was already going to be down
today as a result of these reports that
China cancelled the meeting over over
trade so we took that leg lower as I
said on the Rosenstein headlines but
it's it's been remarkable though that
the market hasn't really cared much
about trade either for more than a few
hours or a day I mean when you look at
when you look at earnings earnings so
far have not really been there hasn't
been any material impact in terms of
bottom line prints and earnings so far
companies are starting to talk more and
more about risk around tariffs but like
again not no impact on earnings thus far
I think that's a risk that we're
basically paying close attention to for
2019 and that's where I think you're
seeing a market has been fairly fairly
resilient so far we you're not working
into your models trying to factor in
what happens in the midterms we're only
six weeks out it's very hard I mean look
there is phase one has been implemented
on tariffs part of phase two has been
implemented discussion about phase three
clearly phase three goes through numbers
for 2019 we think will come down at
least by five bucks in terms of for EPS
if possibly up to ten but again it's
very hard to distinction between what's
reality and what's basically noise yeah
well we're gonna get the midterm
elections that that's not noise I mean
it's the reality of what's gonna happen
the outcome is is far unknown at this
point Lindsey so how do you factor it
all in yeah it's definitely hard to
factor in usually you see volatility
increase significantly in the third
quarter going into midterm elections are
usually up 34% we haven't seen that this
year looking a lot of the different
polls that are out there it seems like
the Democrats are gonna take over the
house which would just result in more
gridlock within Congress which doesn't
bode well for growth and the market
going forward I don't know what could be
negative about gridlock in the in the
White House or in in Washington
what could they do we've got the tax
plan there right yeah I've got the
economy that's going you know on all
cylinders so why would gridlock be
negative you know what I misstated I
don't mean that it will be negative what
I really mean is that you're not going
to see any growth policies really be
pushed through there's just gonna be
infighting not a lot is going to get
done and you're right the market usually
typically does well when there is a
gridlock in the market I just don't
expect increase amounts of there is the
same gridlock is good right yeah right
and and I and I think that the way that
Congress is is positioned now and the
way that it's anticipated the election
will come out which is the house with
the Democrats and the Senate with the
Republicans that could change but even
if that happens we've got the growth
policies in effect we've got regulations
that have been cut back we've got tax
plan going forward so I don't see what
the issue is with that I think gridlock
would be fine in terms of what happens
with Rosen Stein going forward I don't
really see the issues there either
to me maybe this is the smoking gun that
allows Trump to go after Jeff Sessions
and say he worked for you you should
have known this you should have kept him
in check even then though I think it's a
momentary sell in the market but the
market keeps going I'm with you I'm more
concerned about inflation we're seeing
used-car prices move up while oil is not
part of the core still the impact of
higher energy prices feeds into
everything the feedstock so that's my
biggest concern so the market seems to
be taking a 3.10 ten-year roughly three
point window in stride de Bravo your
year-end targets 3,000 we're not all
that far away from that level as we
speak at what point do you start to get
a little more bullish is there a chase
for a performance into into year-end do
you take some comfort that these
high-growth sectors which have fueled
much of this rally have taken what
appears to be a little bit of a backseat
these value stocks that should be going
up in in what is a very strong economy
are finally even with tariffs industrial
stocks are performing so well so we've
had this price target out for now almost
a year and we've had to defend it on
many different occasions earlier this
year where there was a lot of volatility
market continues to be quite resilient I
think actually the market probably would
have been above 3000 already if it
wasn't for trade and trade escalation
and an old Terra discussion so for us
again we're really looking at 2019 right
now if you look at consensus it's
implying about 10% growth we think 11
percent is something that's achievable
but again that's very much so contingent
upon what happens with tariffs if we
think that thing things start to
converge you get some form of resolution
I would say the market probably can move
a lockstep with earnings for next year
maybe five to ten percent but if
Terrance getting implemented then I
think we need to perhaps take a pause
teres bring the inflation and Steve's
correct to identify that I think what
you're seeing right now in the u.s. 10
years that you're gonna see a move
towards three and a quarter percent I
also think when you look at energy right
now I think the street is under invested
as it relates to energy oil prices
you've got Brent above $80 right now the
trend for Brent crude oil for the
remainder of the year is gonna be higher
and higher know myself personally I'm
adding to my energy exposure I think the
trend is sent there but I think there's
a little bit for everyone on a day like
today so yes you have some of the value
names you you close the gap between
growth and value over the last couple of
weeks and if you look at the market
equal weight versus cap-weighted okay
equal weight is slightly outperforming
but on a day like today there's a little
bit for everyone so you've seen
technology names come back a little bit
today they're outperforming some of
these value oriented in text still on
pace for its worst month since its March
it is but but but the question is do you
exhaust the the move that we've seen
without tech coming back it's happened
before listen it's happened before again
so you might have in July and August
borrowed a little bit from September I
don't think that changes the overall
trend for technology itself Friday you
get this communication services sector
so talking to a lot of hedge fund
managers this weekend they're gonna lose
Google they're going to lose Facebook
they're gonna lose
TripAdvisor they're gonna baba is gonna
go into the consumer discretionary much
further investments in how much further
Josh can the market go up from here
without tech joining join me in there
well we've proved that it's not
necessary this this quarter healthcare
is up almost 12% and industrials are up
11% and we made new record highs in the
Dow last week
a new record high in the SP on several
occasions so you actually proved it
already that you can have the best
leading sector on a three-year basis
take a pause and other sectors provided
the earnings backdrop is strong and the
market itself is stable can take the
lead and can push the index to new high
look listen retailers at multi-year
highs telling them all time highs who
would have thought that was possible
going back to his recently as December
January so yeah it would be great if
Amazon wasn't nine percent off the tie
and Netflix was making new high every
day and Apple was making new high-end
events outside do you expect a rebound
I'm making the point that it's okay if
it's not personally I think the fattest
pitch in the entire stock market right
now is alphabet technically the setup
here I think if you get this thing
probably 20 25 points higher where
really nobody is down in this stock
significantly outperforming Facebook in
the midst of this large cap tech
drawdown alphabet is the name but but
put that one idea aside the bigger
picture idea and I think this was
alluded to earlier actually gridlock
will be phenomenal the American public
told the Gallup poll recently that they
prefer it including Republicans they
want to check on this president at this
point even if they're Republicans it's
number one number two if you actually
look going back to 1950 the stock market
does the the third best of any outcome
when you have a Republican in the White
House and one house of Congress
controlled by Democrats it's not the
best possible scenario but it's the
third that's not negative but that's why
we ask the questions to our experts
about the political calculus if
Rosenstein is actually fired and what
the outcome could be if that could tilt
the outcome at all America schools or
dramatic midterms that's a really good
question if you were if you would ask me
in December what's the biggest risk to
the stock market I would not have said
recession or earnings or any of the or
oil or any of that stuff the dollar I
would have said an exogenous shock
caused by something in Washington where
we go to Saturday night Saturday night
mass massacre and everyone loses
confidence in the US stock market at
once
I no longer believe that's the case
because I think the market now expects
some version of impeachment proceedings
this
all non say it'll be successful I'm not
saying Trump is in trouble I'm just
saying the market now expects this this
is the base case that we are gonna have
a vicious political know maybe maybe
Jimmy the exogenous shock is the
Democrats taking both houses and I mean
at some point when you got wood shop
tomorrow I think that would be the shock
only six weeks out let's not forget it's
not that way where all of those
questions are gonna be asked why because
it's very unexpected I mean and I'm sure
you do your polls as well everybody's
expecting a democratic house and a
Senate Republican or choosing a
Republican Senate look if they go
through impeachment in that in that
scenario you've got to stop in the
Senate if it's Republican it goes
nowhere if it's Democratic then you
actually have to think about the
investigations go on though let me
because the big question here is what
has the market priced in at least that's
the big question to me we've got a
divergence here that's telling us the
market is pricing in a lot of bad things
what's that divergence you've got killer
earnings all right the last two quarters
earnings have just blown the cover off
the ball and expectations still go
higher you mentioned that in terms of
five to ten percent growth this late in
the cycle five to ten percent growth
year over year is incredible
but the multiple has contracted two
turns since the beginning of the year
that is the markets way of saying don't
know if it's tariffs don't know if it's
impeachment don't know if it's in place
you'd think the marketing that all in
there and what they yield on the - you
think the market has priced in the worst
of tariffs yes
no you think the market has wait let me
get the punchline here okay whatever
whether it's priced in all the tariffs
are not Joe okay it's priced in bad news
that's why we're - turns out no what has
he you're never gonna finish dude the
mole was contracted because rates have
risen slowly and shortly but they had
the yield on the - e-excuse me
the Illinois - year the older than 10
year they've risen and as a result yeah
you should not have an expanding stock
market multiple you have great earnings
tempered by the fact that money is not
as cheap as it was okay so it's not like
a rocket science wait a second it's
never one thing so don't say that it's
just mostly one thing
no it's not it's not and by the way
we've got earnings season coming up
there's been no pre announcements okay
this looks like that's basically you now
feel free to make your point but let's
make them go hearing right then I'll
just summarize look you're setting up
for another good earning season third in
a row what's gonna meet are we gonna
have expectations on earnings continue
to rise and multiples contract I don't
think so it's more likely at this stage
in the cycle that the multiple starts to
pick up but we have that much of a
disagreement on the desk as to whether
tariffs are fully priced they're not
president there's at this point last
week I was talking about that there was
going to be a trilateral agreement
between Mexico Canada and the US and
that's why the market was rally we we
have not gotten that so far and I think
as it relates to what's going on with
the Chinese further implementation of
these tariffs raises prices that's a
problem for the US consumer that's a
problem for US corporations and it is an
inflationary impact but the market
doesn't autonomy clearly the market
doesn't think that it's going to be that
punitive to earning 100 this point
absolutely I said that I disagree I
think what is priced in right now is a
favorable outcome at some point can I
just come back to his point
pre-announcement see I'll disagree facts
said put out piece on it last week
saying that it's been the highest
percentage of negative pre announcements
since the first quarter of 2016
but you can't really have it both ways
you can't say that so much is priced
into the market yet strong earnings
which everybody's been talking about and
uniformly agrees are going to occur this
quarter isn't priced in well that's the
point expectations are extremely high
going into the third quarter because
we've had such great numbers out of the
first and second quarter your the
expectations are high going into the
third quarter you just saw the CEO
Business Roundtable confidence come out
today CEOs are worried about tariffs you
heard ups talk about it they said it
only impacted about 10 percent of their
revenues so far micron mentioned it
we're gonna hear this word on conference
calls significantly third quarter don't
even need to wait to the conference
right right Macy's Office Depot I could
go down the list are you all thread
Smith and I
that and so I think what you after pairs
look CEO so do one of two things they're
not going to say hey Trump's doing the
wrong thing right they'll couch it and
say hey we're more cautious going
forward because of the cost inputs going
higher to your point we had the last
quarter in the quarter before that great
earnings without the tariff issues and
what the markets do after the quarterly
announcements what they did what you did
have a point and then I want to Bravo
fishes in their last time and also you
got to use the numbers here two hundred
billion ten percent tariffs twenty
billion dollars a year on the sp500 I
don't think it's going to show up I
understand the concern about inflation
so I'm not saying it's not there I'm
saying it's small and that's in the
market that's what I'm saying question
whether the worst of the tariffs where
them are here listen a year but you've
suggested yes I did I'm standing by it
you're halfway through what the maximum
possible tariffs down if we don't play
if you get 25 percent on another you
throw in another sixty-seven okay you're
you're correct that I'm assuming
rationality you've got against you now
you've got the referee on you tell if we
continue to play a game of I'll see your
two hundred billion and raise you
another fifty billion that's going to be
a problem for the market in 2000 no I
think I think tariffs are partially
priced in
I don't think entirely I think if you do
go into Phase three I mean first of all
I think if they implement 25 percent on
phase two that in itself will likely
bring down some of the numbers in
nineteen which I don't think it's fully
priced in I do think partially it is I
think multiple is a function of rates at
fully agree I do think that trade
however is also something that's
limiting the multiple from re-rating
maybe not by 2x but regrading by 1x
gridlock just another thing I just want
to mention real quickly I do fully agree
gridlock I think is a positive because
out of DC last year you had a pro-growth
agenda this year you have an anti growth
so you get a gridlock I think the market
likes that can I ask you this market has
been driven by buybacks
if the CEOs get a whiff of a slowdown in
growth do you think you'll continue to
see the aggressive nature of buybacks
that we've seen the last couple more you
need to see it even more so if that's
what they need to grow earnings they
would double down on by that there's no
cut back
there's no indication that they are
seeing this hold on we had Jamie Dimon
the the JPMorgan CEO on just a few
moments ago with our own Jim Cramer it's
a CNBC exclusive interview in
Philadelphia here's what he said about
the state of the economy America the
economy is quite strong and and it's
growing at 3% it has been now for a
couple of quarters and looks like that
way there are no great potholes so let
me very well continue no indication from
Jamie Dimon sees a whole lot of stuff in
the things that he looks at that we're
gonna get that slowdown that you say
well if we get a slowdown companies
maybe gonna buy a little less of their
stock back I think look at the big risk
is tariffs and impact on margins I think
when you look at the economy you're
basically looking employment which is
very strong job at strong you're finally
seeing some wage inflation which is
basically helping the consumers and
actually there's one thing that if you
look at q2 guide as most companies we're
actually talking about the consumer
strength right so again I don't think
that the earnings picture is III don't
think it's that clear that you know
expect expectations have risen but I
don't think they're extreme terrace is a
negative but on the other side I think
you have an economist what's the house
view on what's the house view on the
ten-year and quittin and just just the
the premium and how small it's gotten
and and what do you think really would
impact stock prices if it's not you know
if we're not really gonna worry about
the curve then what would we worry about
I'm glad you asked some questions
because my next question to you was
gonna be we've gone you know 22 minutes
here and we've talked about all of these
potential risk inflation I get it but
the the word the Fed hasn't even been
mentioned yet they're gonna be front and
center this week how much of a wild-card
is that and it plays right into Josh's
question yes so look the the Fed hiking
rates I think is a gradual negative it
is eating into margins slowly but we
estimated margins for instance when you
look at earnings margins won't get
impacted entirely until fed hikes for
another at least fifty two hundred bits
if you look at interest expense and the
debt levels
I think the multiple is a function of
yield so again if yields move higher say
north of three and a half three and
three-quarters I do think this becomes
an issue but let's first get there again
our house view I would say probably is
more in line with three and a quarter to
three and a half now pension funds u.s.
pension funds
corporate pension funds government
pension funds are just insatiable buyers
of tenure Treasury they're getting way
heavy into private equity and so to
counter that lack of liquidity
it's a barbell on the other side they're
going nuts on on Troy which i think is
the reason for this narrowing spread and
not economic concern you would you agree
with that yes I've had many many PM's
basically tell me acid alligators tell
me 10-year yield at three percent that's
a buying opportunity for like the whole
world yes huge pools because when you
look at what's happening abroad when
Germany Japan it's so where do you think
so the question that I asked people that
nobody knows the answer to because we're
interested for environment is where do
you see restrictive policy now it used
to be over 5% clearly that could be
there anymore no where is it I would say
probably three and three-quarters 4%
anything above that I think becomes
restrictive unless we have new reasons
coming out suggesting growth will
accelerate but you don't have your your
you know your sector waiting's are what
would you recommend right now is the top
three places to be in the market we've
been pushing the last several months a
barbell portfolio I'm sort of using the
same same same term here basically we
continue to like tech because we do
think that late cycle you won't have
exposure to growth people pay a premium
for gross car sitting but at the same
time given how extreme dislocation
levels have become in the market we're
saying don't be naked on the value side
have value anchors we like financials
with like industrials we like energy but
you're I guess the reason I asked you
the question is by virtue of the fact
you have those sectors tech financials
industrials energy growth cyclical you
can't be worried about all that much no
we're not we think that the business
ugly economic cycle is intact and not
just in the US but globally again I keep
mentioning tariffs and trade escalation
is my biggest worry for 2019 in terms of
do we move sideways or do we potentially
move higher by 10% when you look at the
emerging markets relative to where they
are versus the US is that a great
opportunity on a longer-term basis we do
think so we do think that emerging
markets increasingly becoming a very
attractive opportunity risk reward is
quite attractive positioning is very
negative sentiment is very negative I'm
with you on this China I mean is
basically in a recession territory when
you look at the gap between US and China
we think look there's there's a lot of
interesting buying opportunities it's
very difficult coming up with the
catalysts and timing the catalyst but
again six months at 12 month view we
think iam definitely I think the risk
though on that trade well you get more
reward but so much more has to go right
for you to get the reward now I disagree
we actually did a lot of work on this
recently we had some questions from
clients it turns out when you buy
emerging markets as Anand as a scepter
as an asset class after 20% declines the
CNBC exclusive hey again Jeff thank you
so much Karl yep we're here with Jamie
Dimon Jamie this is quite a commitment
to an area that frankly has gone from
bank to unbanked city just pulled out
over the course the last five years 15
million dollars a network 330 banks have
closed in the last 10 years why why not
yeah well you know with regulatory
reform and tax reform where you now says
20 billion dollar thing going to many
cities obviously Philadelphia is the
seventh largest mark in the United
States that's not including their
biggest suburb called New York and you
know we and we like to be part of a
community we're already here in
investment banking commercial banking
and private banking retail is a gap so
we're gonna open 50 branches 20 percent
will be in LMI neighborhoods
neighborhoods like this and when we come
in we bring the full force of JP Morgan
which is philanthropy dollars but to
really help people like entrepreneur
color funds affordable housing units and
and we enjoy it it's good for the
company and over time and we're we
invest the long-run we never pulling it
out of something talked about the
multiplier effect and when you open a
branch people think you know what we
don't need branches anymore everything's
digital yeah but brick them more work
it's amazing so I think people aren't
thinking clearly a million people
visited branches every day the type of
branch is gonna change the size that
branch can change they're getting
smaller but more advice so there's a
mortgage loan office in there there's a
small business loan officer there's a
financial adviser but your financial
affairs so that'll change but a million
people even even the average millennial
visits something like three times a
quarter so to me the question of brands
no more forget they'll change but you
still need to serve your client the way
they want to be served not the way I
want to serve them as you know we've
rolled out all these new products too
right like like finding the online-only
Bank
well they do mention this because a lot
of people feel that ten years ago one of
the problems was the education the
borrower the boy or did not
know enough about what to do you said to
be someone in there literally to help
and to teach yeah well that make a
difference versus say 10 years ago yeah
I've told the people here when you go to
these LMI neighborhoods try something
special but we're gonna roll a lot of
financial education tools we have you
invest we're gonna roll out a self
advised group and we haven't decided
price yet so that you could advise and
think about we already put on the screen
you can get your FICO score and we're
gonna teach you ways and you what you
can improve your FICO so that you can
reduce cost a bar and stuff like that we
have to do a better job not just us but
the America educating people in
financial matters from rainy day funds
to handle you know retirement accounting
and so we're making especially have to
do that now it's only have things coming
out that hopefully our customers will
enjoy let's talk about the power of
business versus the power of government
the government legendarily got big
settlements from different banks 13
billion dollars from you yeah Keith
Blood says that you paid a total of 44
billion did that money go into the
community and did that was that the way
to get things done versus the targeted
way you're doing well there's this
actually UPS community I mean that some
of those funds we don't actually know
how they disbursed and I think one day
someone to look at that and that kind of
the past we've moved forward about how
we do it for you but this is how you
build a community small business lending
affordable housing branches and advise
people and we know that that works
cities you know this City Philadelphia
your great hometown I think the city is
doing better and better and better but
parts it or not and so we do make a
special effort in those parts of that
city now there is a sense that lending
nationally is slowed down I'm not
getting that from your bank can you give
us a sense of what's going on in places
that frankly are unbanked and whether
there is a revival that can actually
move the needle for you so one of one
important thing these things work when
you do it with civic society and
government okay they don't work we're at
each other so we've seen all around the
world when mayors not-for-profits
businesses work together you can get
people jobs you get them in train to get
them employed and it actually works and
so but in America America the economy is
quite strong and and it's growing at 3%
it has been now for a couple of quarters
and looks like that way there are no
great potholes so let me very well
continue and so
lending it there is a little bit
reduction lending in middle market we
don't exactly know why large
corporations of course bonds public
market could clients be to flush I think
you know it we do know there's an effect
that through tax reform and corporations
earning money they need to borrow less
it's just hard to figure it ease it out
but that really means but if you toe
look at employment growth people going
back to work it's pretty good
alright now last week you told CNBC that
it's not it don't call it a trade war
call it a trade skirmish previously you
have said that there could be at times
perhaps a slowdown or at least in the
psyche because of the of any sort of
trade war how do you feel about trade
scores
twenty billion dollars of tariffs in and
of themselves are a little bit of attack
if they're all gets paid is attacks in
America many people do other things
right they they have the other supply
lines but it's a twenty trillion dollar
economy so that that is a negative
the real negative isn't that it's
confidence consistency if people start
reducing investment people start moving
the supply chains around that we have
seen already moves the market a little
bit and so and the fear that the
skirmish may become a war so we we
really don't think it's a great way to
go bad it could easily have said some of
the benefits they've seen from
regulatory reform and tax reform
I want you talking about regulate for me
yeah Marion Lake said recently a
fabulous CFO that we haven't really seen
genuine regulatory that would make her
happy but there's been so much it's been
change of attitude no yeah so I think if
you when I travel around CEOs of other
industries logistics steel manufacturing
pipeline they've all seen it have we
seen actual changes in regulation for us
not really they have a long list of
things they want to do there has been
regulatory change for the smaller banks
which we totally support to make a
little bit easier for them reduced to
burn them but it doesn't didn't have any
to do for the bigger banks I think I
mean in the public's you know we're not
asking for throwing out dodd-frank we're
simply people so we look at calibrating
getting rid of duplication looking at
things that hurt the mortgage markets or
at this kind of market so you could
enhance growth and do it safely no one's
looking at you know going back to good
old days just recalibrating remember
there were two thousand rules
it was like one or two was a lot and
they were done in haste and people show
he's rash and look at cost-benefit you
know what makes sense what doesn't
all keeping the system safer remember
growth a stronger economy it also makes
the financial system safer now you just
mentioned no rate potholes we've got a
Fed meeting that's coming up this week
they spread that you would get to intend
to use the typical logic that people say
means that you can't make as much money
and if we can't lend as much so I'm
going to say the no potholes the
households in good shape people going
back to work
fight customers say those are fine
companies of flage tax reform is still a
benefit we don't have the extreme
leverage we hadn't Oh 8 and and all the
lending has been pretty good prime good
good lending so it's not been billing
but absolutely there's friction out
there there's always friction you open
up a newspaper any week of any month
there's tons of friction and it's
mounting brexit QE turkey Argentina oh
and we don't know the full effect of
those things so yeah we keep our eye on
that but it may not derail the economy
you're gonna see separate the two I keep
thinking these are all things that
should play to your fortress balance
sheet strength we've not seen we got
European banks that are really really on
the run so to speak why isn't JPMorgan
making greater presidents given the
weakness the rest of the world well we
do we're in every country and we're
steady growing and we do country by
country anymore bankers systems people
and all the support risk legal credit
compliance so our share in Europe is
gone up considerably and and we're just
doing for adding people and adding
branches and you know the basic good old
three yards and a cloud of dust okay
when I hear three us I think you should
get a higher price dirties vulnerable
for Evans sake you're selling it 12
times
next reserves we've been at this game
for a long time if we're your growth
financial with money that's made every
single day you open the door why aren't
you valued like it's a blossom tea
company that's a question you're gonna
have to answer then your banks are under
still under political regulatory
constraints and all that we just went
through the crisis I think a lot of
people's investors buy always a little
worried but you're right worrying very
good returns in capital we're growing
you know whenever when a cycle hit
obviously it could affect the bank but
we will manage right through that cycle
just like we did it right through the
last one okay well when I think about
that I think that you must be in there
buying stock every day for the company
you've chosen a path of buying back
stock shrieky
but I still many shares you have for the
last ten years your share count is not
going down enough when will you start
getting back to a level that where you
really are not what your sopping up the
door supply I don't remember the exact
number but our share comes down like 15
percent yeah but we're doing six versus
ten years ago two three five yeah yeah
well there's some have been issued over
time but since I've been there it's been
coming down so but if you want to look
at something I would prefer to spend
that money not buying back stock doing
this so growing our business is far
better for the economy right now we
don't have a lot of choices but over
time I really would prefer not to buy
back stock
you know companies to do it would make
sense I also don't buy this argument
that it's bad buying back stock is
simply giving it back to you an investor
who then redeploys to a better use its
redeployment of capital that should be
redeployed if a company can't use it but
mine my druthers always to grow our
business which we're now doing okay 500
branches we're now in all major cities
for investment banking middle market
banking etc we've been growing overseas
but think about any bankers and people
and stuff like that so that is my
preppie 2p you invest no building
products and services so you're gonna
see a lot more for that coming the next
12 months when I think about this and
I'm very proud of what you're doing in
my home city but I do say okay well
Apple of pure capitalist is you know
Jamie we're shareholders we should get
that money I there's no real instant
payoff here within two three years it's
gonna take a long time no it's not true
I mean first of all accounting you have
to be careful about but when we build a
branch okay and we put a meaning I don't
know we want to give the numbers
publicly we put capital in the branch
but five years later that branch could
could be earning contributing to profit
a million dollars a year so you know the
the timetable of that new cities it's a
little more complicated than we opened a
branch to see we're in but again we
already serve 60 million households we
want to serve 70 million we want to
bring them to all the proxy service we
have so there there is a financial
payoff it just it is not overnight but I
don't worry about that I just explained
to people like you that that's okay the
NPV is very good and it's gonna be
negative the first year you know maybe
breakdowns by the third year and then a
plus that's a spa whore depositors of
JPMorgan we're not getting the rate that
you're gonna get on the two year when
are you gonna start paying your CD and
your depositors more when rates came
down the
it came down like this as race came down
2-0 banks didn't do it
so race started going up they didn't
pass it on I think now you asleep elope
other options money market funds etc but
I think now as rates go up the next 25
the next 25 there's you'll see what we
called beta you know how much will be
passed on it'll go up and up and up well
is that going to shrink profitability
not I'd be worried not not really
because it's we're getting or gaining
deposits and the spread that you're
maintaining between your cost of funds
and your pain would be about the same
Jamie you're talking about the Politan
just like the politicians did in 1964
you talk about a war on poverty that
business seems to be doing a better job
you mentioned it in the big settlements
from say 2013 when attorney associate
attorney general Tony West was kind of
after the bank that was you be on the
defensive you're playing the offensive
and trying to change poverty in this
country do you feel that you can do it
better in the government no I think I
feel you I think government and busy